Received: from XBETAS-RURVT3NC.om91.net (cpc1-nfds2-0-0-cust252.leic.cable.ntl.com [86.17.112.253])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3/+ALEVE)
	with ESMTP id JAA27896; Mon, 21 Aug 2000 00:06:18 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from hotmail.com (mx4.hotmail.com [65.54.245.104])
        by XBETAS-RURVT3NC.om91.net (Postfix) with ESMTP id U795RE3TVP
        for <julianne@aleve.media.mit.edu>; Wen, Mon, 21 Aug 2000 01:06:20 +0000
From: "Ophelia" <druryn1b1@hotmail.com>
To: <eleanor@aleve.media.mit.edu>
Subject: stok analysis tools and tips meant to increase long-term profits   Never seen stuff
Date: Wen, Mon, 21 Aug 2000 01:06:20 +0000
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: AHX6ZHLB7OYr5BDnH5RkpEJhH6AOqsjNGxM9
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Investment time frames, stok recommendations and highlights Market status measurements and booming tendencies Expert stok suggestions and recommendations stok recommendations and managing solutions 
Symbol(s):	DPGP.PK	

ABOUT:
Denim Apparel Group is a fully reporting United States corporation listed on the Pink Sheets. The Company focuses on the acquisition of high growth companies in the premium denim and high end apparel industry.   Denim operates under the assumption that the apparel industry is fragmented and will benefit from consolidation.   As a result, the Denim Apparel Group is dedicated to the consolidation of the premium denim and sportswear business and to that end, the company's goal is to acquire apparel companies with sales in the $2 - $5 million dollar range and with the potential to grow in excess of $10 million in sales. Denim Apparel Group's intermediate target is to grow to greater than $50 million in sales within the next three years

HOT NEWs:
Denim Apparel Group (OTC: DPGP - News ) announces its agreement with Global Media Fund that will provide Denim Apparel Group with a comprehensive $5 million nationwide product exposure campaign. The media campaign will consist of a combination of both radio and print features. Global in conjunction with Denim Apparel Group will develop the featured articles to brand and promote the Company's clothing and apparel lines. This content will be distributed through 10,250 daily and weekly newspapers, attained through GMF cultivated relationships developed over the past 20 years. The program also calls for nationally syndicated radio features that will promote the entire Denim Apparel Group product lines. The radio features will be read by radio professionals and sent to over 6,600 radio stations across the US. It is expected that once the media campaign is launched, the print campaign will reach an audience of 126 million readers monthly, for 12 months, while the radio campaign will reach 450 million listeners monthly for the twelve months. The approximate equivalent advertising value for this advertising is in excess of $6,570,000 in print advertising value. 

According to Eric Joffe, CEO, "We are very excited about this relationship. This deal allows us to penetrate our markets more successfully, develop strategic partnerships and increase our consumer sales. This relationship will prove to be extremely successful for our Company, business partners, and shareholders because it will create more brand awareness for our clothing line. It will also provide us with increased exposure in market areas with Major League Baseball teams such as san Diego, St Louis and Los Angeles where we have product kiosks at the ballparks; and facilitate the establishment of partnerships currently not accessible at this time." 

Beneficial cooperation based on expert stok advice Consider this insider information before buying stoks 




 If trousers say massah teef, yuh can't doubt am. All you need is love A sprat to catch a mackerel. A journey of a thousand sites begins with a single click. Strike while the.. bug is close. Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere  Children should be seen and not heard Cow deh a pasture he nah remember seh dog and butcher deh till he see am. If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower  Bread is the staff of life One, one dutty build dam. Big tree fall down, goat bite he leaf. God is alive and well and working on something less ambitious Opportunity seldom knocks twice. Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness Every family has a skeleton in the cupboard He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray. Two Dogs Fight for a Bone, and a Third Runs Away With it  A Small Spark Makes a Great Fire. If you want a place in the sun, you must leave the shade of the family tree Monkey dress e pickney till he spoil.	 It is better to wear out than to rust out as strong as love Never put off til tomorrow what you can do today If yuh plant plantain yuh can't reap cassava. Every rope gat two ends. Constant dripping wears away the stone If anything can go wrong, it will Be just before you are generous Well Begun is Half Done Do not wear out your welcome Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh 

