Received: from tug.org (isdn-2-178.daimi.au.dk [130.225.2.178])
	by sunshine.math.utah.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with ESMTP id KAA05091
	for <tex-fonts@math.utah.edu>; Fri, 7 Jun 2002 10:02:51 -0600 (MDT)
From: events@knowledge-media.com
Received: from hall.horizondata.com (hall.horizondata.com [66.89.55.100])
	by tug.org (8.11.6/8.11.6) with ESMTP id g57G2kx13789
	for <tex-fonts@tug.org>; Fri, 7 Jun 2002 18:02:47 +0200
Received: from 66.89.55.100 ([66.89.55.103])
	by hall.horizondata.com (8.11.2/8.11.2) with ESMTP id g57FFb027976
	for <tex-fonts@tug.org>; Fri, 7 Jun 2002 11:15:37 -0400
Message-Id: <200206071515.g57FFb027976@hall.horizondata.com>
Content-type: text/plain
Date: Thu, 06 Jun 2002 12:03:44 -0400
Subject: Integrating KM, E-learning and Learning Management Breakfast Seminar
To: email <tex-fonts@tug.org>
X-Virus-Scanned: by amavisd-milter (http://amavis.org/)




Knowledge Media (KMI) and Autonomy host an Executive Briefing and Webcast: 

Integrating E-learning, Learning Management and Knowledge Management: Challenges and Opportunities for Human Capital

Thursday, June 13 2002
8:30am - 11:00am (Breakfast served)
The National Press Club
529 14th Street, NW
Washington DC, 20045
Metro Stop - Metro Center 

To register for the briefing or webcast, go to <http://www.knowledge-media.com/register.html>

THE CHALLENGE:
In today's knowledge economy, many organizations are reliant on the knowledge and competence of individual organizational members. According to GAO, more than 50% percent of the government's 1.6 million full-time employees will be eligible to retire in the next five years. In addition, 65 percent of the Senior Executive Service will be eligible for retirement by 2004. 

US organizations spend $100 billion annually on training and consulting, often failing to improve operations. Research indicates only 10 to 20 percent of this training investment results in enhanced job effectiveness. To achieve mission success, organizations have to find a way to capture, index, disseminate and reuse the knowledge, wisdom and experience of their most valuable asset, their knowledge workers. The President's management agenda recognizes this, making Strategic Management of Human Capital an objective and a critical imperative for success. 

The objective of these emerging systems is to enhance individual and organizational performance through integrated knowledge management and structured organizational learning. 

Strategic Knowledge Management (SKM) aligns your mission with an integrated web-centric e-learning, learning management, knowledge management solutions to enhance individual and organizational performance, using dynamic, personalized content. The result is on-demand, task-specific, automated, customized, intelligent and seamless access to organizational knowledge and intelligence. 

THE EXECUTIVE BRIEFING
Join other Government and industry leaders at the National Press Club to learn how Knowledge-Media and Autonomy can radically enhance individual and organizational performance using the latest automated knowledge management, learning management and e-learning technologies and standards. 

This executive briefing will address questions such as: 

 How can your organization make a strategic case of knowledge management? 

 How can your organization integrate knowledge management, learning management and e-learning to create radical increases in organizational learning and effectiveness? 

 How do you leverage new information technologies, in powering the knowledge-based evolution of your organization? 

 How can your organization benefit from and deploy knowledge management processes, such as knowledge creation, knowledge sharing, knowledge acquisition, knowledge exchange, and knowledge transfer? 

 How can your organization use the emerging learning management standards (ADL SCORM, IMS) to integrate all reusable knowledge assets to support knowledge worker development and performance? 

This invitation-only executive briefing will present case examples of key automated knowledge management, learning management and e-learning technologies from Autonomy and Knowledge Media. Relevant best practices of world-class federal agencies and organizations such as Department of Defense, Cable and Wireless and the American Society for Training and Development (ASTD) will be addressed. 

Discover the best ways to align KM and learning management with business strategy, and avoid key KM pitfalls. Participants will: 

 Understand the significance of strategic knowledge management, based on the recent KMI book entitled "Strategic Knowledge: The Art and Science of Organizational Learning in the Third Millennium." 

 Understand the 10-step methodology for integrating KM, learning management and e-learning successfully. 

 Experience the radical potential of key emerging integrated knowledge management, learning management and e-learning technologies. 

 Learn about world-class fortune 500 and Federal examples. 

 Understand the applicability of emerging learning management and knowledge management standards, such as XML and ADL SCORM. 

THE SPEAKERS:
Bill Redeen, Knowledge Media, Chief Knowledge Officer
John Cronin, Autonomy, Vice President, Federal Sector
Justin Rufo, Autonomy, Manager, Civilian Federal Accounts

About Knowledge Media: Knowledge Media is an award-winning leader in web-centric strategic knowledge management, e-learning, learning management and performance support systems development. Clients have included every cabinet-level US Federal agency, Fortune 500 companies, universities, local governments and non-profits. Examples include the American Society for Training and Development, Federal Communications Commission, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Defense Technical Information Center, Defense Information Systems Agency, Department of Education, Food and Drug Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Federal Aviation Administration, Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation, Department of Agriculture, National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute, U.S. Marine Corps, Cable and Wireless, SABA, National Association of Purchasing Managers, Defense Acquisition University and Office of Personnel Management.

Knowledge Media is the developer of SYNERGY 3.0 KnowledgewareTM, a leading-edge KM solution, combining award-winning e-learning, learning management, knowledge management, interactive profile-based e-mail, webcasts, virtual conferences, chat, automated workflow control and collaborative tools to radically enhance organizational and knowledge worker performance. Knowledge Media can be found on the web at: <http://www.knowledge-media.com>

About Autonomy: Autonomy, Inc. is a global leader in infrastructure software for the enterprise. Autonomy's technology powers applications dependent upon unstructured information including: knowledge management, e-commerce, customer relationship management, enterprise information portals, enterprise resource planning and online publishing. Autonomy's customer base includes more than 475 global companies and government agencies, including the US Department of Energy, US Department of Defense, NASA, British Aerospace, Clorox, Deutsche Bank, Ericsson, General Motors and Lucent. Visit Autonomy on the Web at <http://www.autonomy.com>. 

ID: 249082

To Unsubscribe, click here:
http://www.knowledge-media.com/unsubscribe.cfm?m=249082



