Received: from MENEKSEOZEN (dsl85-106-41822.ttnet.net.tr [85.106.163.94])
	by ufs1.lancs.ac.uk (8.8.4/8.6.12) with SMTP id LAA08834; Mon, 1 Jun 1998 15:22:37 +0100 (BST)
From: "Ashlee" <bolo1xwjwy6@hutmail.net>
To: <cleo@ufs1.lancs.ac.uk>
Subject: Radar for helping you make stock market decisions Just published
Date: Mon, 1 Jun 1998 18:23:29 -0200
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: wdcscBqqGuUDz49ne3lhWroHlNyCWfqz1zbv
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Stock recommendations and managing solutions Top-performing stocks recommended by investment experts 


Come on in: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!

Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:
• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.

CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split

China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.

ABOUT THE COMPANY

China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.


Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.

Key stock factors analyzed by professional experts Market status measurements and booming tendencies 









Save nerves and funds with reliable stock recommendations 




 A new broom sweeps clean. God is alive and well and working on something less ambitious If you get a good wife you will be happy, if you get a bad one you will become a philosopher  A good conscience is the best divinity. The early bird catches the worm. A happy heart makes the face cheerful, but heartache crushes the spirit No one grows old by living; only by losing interest in living A friend in need is a friend indeed. None but the brave deserve the fair  A gentleman without an estate is a pudding without suet.  Well Begun is Half Done Things that come to those who wait may be things left by those who got there first  If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower  If in doubt, mumble Haste makes waste. Let the buyer beware I pointed out to you the stars and all you saw was the tip of my finger  The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.  Good things come in small packages. Without rice, even the cleverest housewife cannot cook  Gut No Fish Till You Get Them The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. Love will find a way Do unto others as you would like them to do unto you Birds of a feather flock together Nobody want dutty powder. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence It is better to wear out than to rust out Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love. The first step is the hardest A reed before the wind lives on, while might oaks do fall. 



