Received: from water.lyris.net (water.lyris.net [64.62.197.96])
	by cse-mail.unl.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1) with SMTP id j1B1eAET028612
	for <riedesel@cse.unl.edu>; Thu, 10 Feb 2005 19:41:00 -0600 (CST)
X-Authentication-Warning: siwenna.cc.gatech.edu: www set sender to ericson@cc.gatech.edu using -f
Message-ID: <LYRIS-6081717-1264744-2005.02.10-17.40.59--riedesel#cse.unl.edu@lyris.collegeboard.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2005 10:14:04 -0500 (EST)
Subject: [ap-compsci] Attracting women to computing
From: ericson@cc.gatech.edu
To: "AP Computer Science" <ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com>
cc: maureen@cc.gatech.edu
User-Agent: SquirrelMail/1.4.3a
X-Mailer: SquirrelMail/1.4.3a
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Priority: 3 (Normal)
Importance: Normal
Reply-To: "AP Computer Science" <ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com>
X-Scanned-By: MIMEDefang 2.49 on 129.93.165.11
X-Virus-Scanned: by AMaViS 0.3.12pre8
Status: OR

Computing is nearly the only scientific field where the percentage of
women has decreased over the years.  At the high it was about 30%.  It is
now in the teens.  Most of the CS AP classes in Georgia have 0 to 2 women
in them.  It will take quite a bit of work to reverse this trend.

The Unlocking the Clubhouse: Women in Computing book by Jane Margolis and
Allan Fisher is an excellent book that explores the reasons why women
don’t take computing and why they do.  It also offers suggestions for what
to do to encourage women.

Why girls don’t take computer classes:
•	The ‘hacker’ stereotype.  Girls don’t want to eat, sleep, and breathe
computers.  They don’t want to be ‘geeks’.
•	Courses are dry and boring.  They are too abstract.  Too much focus on
picky details.
•	The girls have less experience with computers and know less than the
boys.  Boys have used computers more and are more interested in computer
games (Game Boys).
•	There aren’t enough girls in the class and the class isn’t friendly to
girls.
•	Parents and guidance counselors discourage them.
•	They don’t want to ruin their grade point average.

Why girls do take computer classes:
•	Computing is useful in many fields.
•	They like math.
•	They have been encouraged by friends, teachers, parents, and counselors.
•	They enjoy problem solving.
•	They see great job opportunities.
•	They like creating things on the computer.

What can teachers do to encourage women?
•	Recruit girls explicitly.  Talk to individual students.  Give talks to
math, science, art, band, web design, and other AP classes (History,
English).  Recruit entire girl teams (cheerleading, softball, etc). 
Recruit a girl leader and have her recruit her friends.  Use the PSAT to
target students.
•	Educate counselors, parents, and teachers on what computing means. 
Explain what computing is now (beyond data processing) like graphics,
video special effects, robotics, information security, simulations.  Show
how it is essential to many fields.  Show that there are jobs in the field
(not all jobs will be going overseas).  Do an ‘open house’ event for
parents.
•	Have some ‘all girl’ computing events.  Do evening or weekend workshops
with LEGO robots, Karel J Robot, Turtle graphics, Media manipulation, etc.
 Bring in professional women or college students that don’t match the
‘geek’ stereotype.  We have an African American women CS graduate student
at Tech that takes part in beauty pageants and has her own record label. 
I was a cheerleader in high school, have 3 kids, and ride horses.
•	Make sure the assignments aren’t geared towards boys: cars, killer
robots, and sports.  Make assignments more open-ended and fun like create
a collage using the same image but with at least 3 image manipulations:
negating, mirroring, change color.  Play with language (create silly
sentences).
•	Do more than just program.  Computer Science is not just programming! 
Emphasize the creative aspects of computing: design, graphics,
human-computer interaction.  Show how computers are used in medicine,
manufacturing, space exploration, entertainment.

I challenge each AP teacher to contact at least 5 women and try to recruit
them into CS AP.  Ask your current students to also talk to women.  Hold
an evening event for parents to educate them.  Talk to other teachers in
your school.  Give talks to other AP classes to encourage them to take
CS-AP.  Bring in women professionals and students to talk to your class or
to another class with lots of women.  I know this is asking you to do
quite a bit but we won't solve this problem by doing nothing.

Barb Ericson
Georgia Tech


---
You are currently subscribed to ap-compsci as: riedesel@cse.unl.edu

To unsubscribe send a blank email to   
leave-ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com

To update your preferences, search the archives or post messages online, visit http://lyris.collegeboard.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?site=collegeboard&enter=ap-compsci

If you need help using Lyris web interface go to:
http://www.lyris.com/lm_help/4.0/WebInterfaceforUsers.html

Visit AP Central(tm) - The online resource for teachers, schools, colleges, and education professionals-- http://apcentral.collegeboard.com

The College Board
45 Columbus Avenue
New York, NY  10023-6992

