Received: from water.lyris.net (water.lyris.net [64.62.197.96])
	by cse-mail.unl.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1) with SMTP id j1FMDjHu023015
	for <riedesel@cse.unl.edu>; Tue, 15 Feb 2005 16:14:14 -0600 (CST)
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.6556.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="us-ascii"
Subject: [ap-compsci] RE: Attracting women to CS
Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2005 11:17:41 +0100
Message-ID: <LYRIS-6081717-1270213-2005.02.15-14.13.55--riedesel#cse.unl.edu@lyris.collegeboard.com>
Thread-Topic: [ap-compsci] Attracting women to CS
Thread-Index: AcUTR5UhyLNRPUbURECGMqdrIH3+qg==
From: "Mulkey, Dave" <Dave_Mulkey@fis.edu>
To: "AP Computer Science" <ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com>
Reply-To: "AP Computer Science" <ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com>
X-Scanned-By: MIMEDefang 2.49 on 129.93.165.11
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by cse-mail.unl.edu id j1FMDjHu023015
X-Virus-Scanned: by AMaViS 0.3.12pre8
Status: OR

Yes, I am a math teacher, and yes, I do love math.

Which brings to mind a story about math and computing.  We offer a class
called Computer Graphics to grade 10 students.  The students do lots of
graphic design and web design.  And we do some programming so they can
decide whether they might like programming enough to do a programming
course.  Early on in a programming unit (programming a video game in
Blitz Basic), I noticed that one of the girls in the class was sneaking
off into a chat site instead of working on the program.  I was
surprised, as she is usually quite productive.  She said, "Look at all
those numbers!" She was talking about the screen coordinates of the
objects in the game, which appeared all over the place in the program
code. She said, "I hate numbers".  She really meant it!  She was
absolutely unwilling to deal with anything associated with numbers.
This phobia was so extreme that the counselor permitted her to drop her
math class and do Computer Graphics instead, so it was a real
disappointment for her when numbers showed up in computer class.

I agree that you don't need to "love" programming in order to do
something with computers, any more than you must "love" math in order to
take a high school math class.  But we do rely heavily on innate
motivation in computer classes - which are mostly elective classes in
high school - as computer classes involve a productive, active situation
as opposed to the passive, receptive situation in many other classrooms.


As far as the picky-detail syndrome is concerned, my experience has been
that high school students - both boys and girls - don't generally have
sufficient self-discipline to deal with the picky details, and very few
ever show any interest in it.  Their most common lament:  "It SHOULD
work".  
When I locate their mistake, they say, "Oh, is THAT all it was?"
A primary teaching goal in computer classes must be to develop more
self-discipline and patience in our students, and to enable them to deal
successfully with picky details.  -- BUT -- picky details are not the
only thing, nor the most important thing, in programming, web-design,
hardware engineering, etc.  I agree that Computer Science is a highly
creative field, and there is a lot more to success than just writing
correct code in either Java or HTML.  

Rather than looking at this issue as "attracting WOMEN to CS", perhaps
we could consider the fact that the vast majority of males don't study
Computer Science either, and that the computer industry suffers from a
lack of Computer Science graduates.  If we can make Computer Science
more attractive and or doable for ALL people, regardless of gender, that
would be a Good Thing, for both genders.

-----Original Message-----
From: ericson@cc.gatech.edu [mailto:ericson@cc.gatech.edu] 
Sent: Monday, February 14, 2005 2:55 PM
To: AP Computer Science
Subject: [ap-compsci] Attracting women to CS

Several people have posted that you have to really 'love' programming
and
you have to be able to handle the 'picky details' to be in computing. 
This is true if you want to be a professional programmer.  It isn't
necessarily true if you want a carrer in computing.  Many computer
scientist don't program.  This is somewhat like saying you have to love
to
read to be a literature professor.  Certainly you need to know how to
read
but that isn't the most important thing.

Also my point about many girls not wanting to 'eat', 'sleep' and
'breathe'
computers doesn't mean that they can't be great computing professionals.

This is more saying that girls and women want a balance in their lives. 
They don't want to be the stereotype of a hacker who never bathes and
stays up all night writing code and has no life.  This doesn't mean that
they don't enjoy programming, it just isn't what they want to do every
waking hour.  We need to let girls and women know that they don't have
to
match that sterotype to be interested in computing and to make a carrer
out of it. Yes, there are people who match that sterotype but there are
many more who don't.

One of the things that surprises comp sci majors is how creative
computing
is once they get past the early courses.  We need to show that it can be
creative before people lose interest in it.

Yes, there is a certain amount of picky detail in programming.  But, we
can create assignments that allow for creativity and don't just focus on
the picky details.  Computing can and should be fun.  Computers let us
create all sorts of things.  

One of the things that turns people off of computing courses is an
overemphasis on math.  Yes, computing uses math, but it doesn't have to
be
the main focus of the course.  Just how interesting is coverting
temperatures or calculating sales tax?  To most students this is very
boring stuff.  At Georgia Tech we are using media manipulation to teach
an
intro course and many students (especially women) are finding it more
interesting than the usual assignments. It also allows people to do
creative assignments with their own pictures and sounds.

I know many of the AP teachers are math teachers and you love math.
Just
realize that a great many people don't love math.  So if we want to
attract
more people to CS let's try to create interesting, creative, AP courses.

Barb Ericson
Georgia Tech

---
You are currently subscribed to ap-compsci as: DAVE_MULKEY@fis.edu

To unsubscribe send a blank email to   
leave-ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com

To update your preferences, search the archives or post messages online,
visit
http://lyris.collegeboard.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?site=collegeboard&enter=a
p-compsci

If you need help using Lyris web interface go to:
http://www.lyris.com/lm_help/4.0/WebInterfaceforUsers.html

Visit AP Central(tm) - The online resource for teachers, schools,
colleges, and education professionals--
http://apcentral.collegeboard.com

The College Board
45 Columbus Avenue
New York, NY  10023-6992

---
You are currently subscribed to ap-compsci as: riedesel@cse.unl.edu

To unsubscribe send a blank email to   
leave-ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com

To update your preferences, search the archives or post messages online, visit http://lyris.collegeboard.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?site=collegeboard&enter=ap-compsci

If you need help using Lyris web interface go to:
http://www.lyris.com/lm_help/4.0/WebInterfaceforUsers.html

Visit AP Central(tm) - The online resource for teachers, schools, colleges, and education professionals-- http://apcentral.collegeboard.com

The College Board
45 Columbus Avenue
New York, NY  10023-6992

