Received: from water.lyris.net (water.lyris.net [64.62.197.96])
	by cse-mail.unl.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1) with SMTP id j1H1numd018971
	for <riedesel@cse.unl.edu>; Wed, 16 Feb 2005 19:51:03 -0600 (CST)
From: "Leigh Ann Sudol" <ljervis@bedford.k12.ny.us>
To: "AP Computer Science" <ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com>
Subject: [ap-compsci] Re: Attracting women to CS
Date: Wed, 16 Feb 2005 11:18:10 -0500
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="us-ascii"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2900.2180
Thread-Index: AcUTqv/7RmKsxW1qTM2FIodswQNdGAAldxXw
In-Reply-To: <LYRIS-6081892-1270203-2005.02.15-14.09.14--ljervis#bedford.k12.ny.us@lyris.collegeboard.com>
Message-ID: <LYRIS-6081717-1272037-2005.02.16-17.51.02--riedesel#cse.unl.edu@lyris.collegeboard.com>
Reply-To: "AP Computer Science" <ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com>
X-Scanned-By: MIMEDefang 2.49 on 129.93.165.11
X-Virus-Scanned: by AMaViS 0.3.12pre8
Status: OR

Ok, I need to offer up my own humble opinion here.  

To give you a little background I have been teaching CS here at a mid sized
(1200) student high school in Westchester County NY for the past 6 years.  I
also have a robotics club at the school as well.  My CS classes have
balanced out to mostly half and half girls and boys and my robotics club has
a 1/4 ratio 6 girls and 18 boys with the girls taking leadership roles (3
robot captains out of 7 robots).  

Not many of my girls are hard core nerds.  They in fact are multi talented
and one of my robot captains is actually going to college as a theater and
arts major.

I don't call for the de-emphasis of math - quite the opposite - I call for
the demystification of math.  We don't ask teachers to downplay the writing
and communication skills in other classes - but how often do we ask students
to write us a paper on the layout of the desks in the room?  Yes the early
programs that use simple mathematical equations such as converting
temperature and finding interest serve a purpose, however they are as rote
as asking students to write a paper that describes the back of the door
frame where each student is expected to write the exact same paper.

The girls get excited about programming (as others have said) when they
learn how it applies to the larger picture.  They want to feel like they are
doing something useful - whether that contains math or not is fine.

The nit-picky errors that frequent programs I often compare to puzzles - and
I tell my students on the first day that if they don't enjoy working on
puzzles they probably wont enjoy the class.  Each program is a challenge -
and just like a puzzle you don't "lose" if you don't put the pieces together
exactly right the first time - instead you try a piece and if it doesn't
work you lay it aside and try another.  Too often the thought of being
successful on the first try has been drilled into all students' heads and
the girls often take it much more to heart.  They feel that they should be
able to do it perfectly the first time around and when they cant they feel
like they have failed.  

A computer science classroom should be a place where students feel
comfortable with trying and puzzling things out.  The atmosphere should be
one that welcomes frustration and where the teacher shares current and past
attempts at coding as well as the correct information.  It has to be ok to
not put the perfect piece in the first time.

This is one thing I find that underlies a lot of the girls continuing with
more than the intro level course.  And then word of mouth gets out that it's
not so bad and the girl enrollment grows.

Sorry for the rant, just thought I wanted to add my own two cents.

Leigh Ann Sudol
Fox Lane HS
Bedford, NY
http://education.sudol.com

-----Original Message-----
From: David.Green@dpsnc.net [mailto:David.Green@dpsnc.net] 
Sent: Tuesday, February 15, 2005 12:22 PM
To: AP Computer Science
Subject: [ap-compsci] Re: Attracting women to CS

Barb Ericson makes an eloquent plea for non-picky programming.

<<
....
One of the things that turns people off of computing courses is an
overemphasis on math.  Yes, computing uses math, but it doesn't have to be
the main focus of the course.  Just how interesting is coverting
temperatures or calculating sales tax?  To most students this is very
boring stuff.  At Georgia Tech we are using media manipulation to teach an
intro course and many students (especially women) are finding it more
interesting than the usual assignments. It also allows people to do
creative assignments with their own pictures and sounds.
....
>>

It always amazes me that one NEVER sees a college professor make a plea
that a course should reduce its reading or writing but it is OK to
deemphasize the single greatest tool ever invented to communicate
quantitative ideas (math).  Why is that?? I do not understand??

In the same paragraph above one sees the phrase  "media manipulation"
which in my limited understanding of English means almost nothing. One
meaning could be manipulation of graphics objects on the screen.  If this
is the case, there is a tremendous amount of math going on under the skin.
Do the kids learn how to do the manipulations without ever learning HOW
they are actually accomplished?

BTW:  I am doing this form of "media manipulation" in my AP class right now
as a sneaky way to make inheritance and polymorphism a tiny bit clearer (I
hope).
BTW2:  They have a starter toolbox that includes scaling and rotation and
Orbiting that all use math I assume they will learn other places so I guess
I am agreeing with Barb that sometimes it is good to deemphsize the math
for other points.  The kids seem perfectly happy to use the toolbox as a
"black box".
BTW3:  I am conflicted - I personnally hate to use tools (especially
computer tools) that I don't have a clear understanding of their internals
BUT I do it all the time.  I don't really have a clue how the clever folks
at MS handle the windowing of a word document and I TAUGHT one of the lead
programmers on that project (he worked from late 80's into the mid-late
90's when he retired!!)

David Green
Physics and Computer Science Teacher at Jordan HS
 (919) 560-3912 x12300


---
You are currently subscribed to ap-compsci as: ljervis@bedford.k12.ny.us

To unsubscribe send a blank email to   
leave-ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com

To update your preferences, search the archives or post messages online,
visit
http://lyris.collegeboard.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?site=collegeboard&enter=ap-co
mpsci

If you need help using Lyris web interface go to:
http://www.lyris.com/lm_help/4.0/WebInterfaceforUsers.html

Visit AP Central(tm) - The online resource for teachers, schools, colleges,
and education professionals-- http://apcentral.collegeboard.com

The College Board
45 Columbus Avenue
New York, NY  10023-6992



---
You are currently subscribed to ap-compsci as: riedesel@cse.unl.edu

To unsubscribe send a blank email to   
leave-ap-compsci@lyris.collegeboard.com

To update your preferences, search the archives or post messages online, visit http://lyris.collegeboard.com/cgi-bin/lyris.pl?site=collegeboard&enter=ap-compsci

If you need help using Lyris web interface go to:
http://www.lyris.com/lm_help/4.0/WebInterfaceforUsers.html

Visit AP Central(tm) - The online resource for teachers, schools, colleges, and education professionals-- http://apcentral.collegeboard.com

The College Board
45 Columbus Avenue
New York, NY  10023-6992

