Received: from listserver.its.hawaii.edu (listserver [128.171.94.11])
 by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.4 (built Aug  5 2002))
 with SMTP id <0H6Y0005T1QE2M@mail.hawaii.edu>; Tue,
 10 Dec 2002 21:20:39 -1000 (HST)
Received: from rapidash.its.hawaii.edu ([128.171.94.83])
 by listserver.its.hawaii.edu with SMTP id <347966(8)>; Tue,
 10 Dec 2002 21:20:32 -1000
Received: from conversion-daemon.mail.hawaii.edu by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.4 (built Aug  5 2002))
 id <0H6Y00M011JCGV@mail.hawaii.edu>; Tue, 10 Dec 2002 21:19:29 -1000 (HST)
Received: from hawaii.rr.com (hnlmail3.hawaii.rr.com [24.25.227.37])
 by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.4 (built Aug  5 2002))
 with ESMTP id <0H6Y00LGK1OBU7@mail.hawaii.edu>; Tue,
 10 Dec 2002 21:19:23 -1000 (HST)
Received: (apparently) from [204.210.100.174] ([204.210.100.174])
 by hawaii.rr.com  with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.5.1877.757.75); Tue,
 10 Dec 2002 21:19:21 -1000
Date: Tue, 10 Dec 2002 20:25:37 -1000
From: Steve Miyasaka <miyasakas001@hawaii.rr.com>
Subject: [SOC100-L:491] MARGOT'S FINAL ESSAY
Sender: owner-soc100-l@hawaii.edu
To: soc100-L@hawaii.edu
Message-id: <BA1C1A61.537%miyasakas001@hawaii.rr.com>
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-transfer-encoding: quoted-printable
User-Agent: Microsoft-Outlook-Express-Macintosh-Edition/5.02.2022
X-Listprocessor-Version: 8.2.07 -- ListProc(tm) by CREN

        Culture, the total product of human creativity, an invisible part o=
f
society, and not completely permanent, was and remains to be one of the mos=
t
premier issues of the world. Culture is the basis of various activities in =
a
society, like music, fashion, religion and even food. With culture comes th=
e
famous mixture of values and beliefs.  Values, being the normative half
which consists of ideas such as, goals striven for and  the notion between
what is right and wrong.  The empirical half, beliefs, deals with what
people think are true or false.  Values and beliefs can be measured through
the behavioral patterns of a society.  Culture also revolves around the
norm, laws or written influence, and implies to the average lifestyle.
    Now imagine, if someone wanders away from this everyday life, from the
normal way of living, what happens to that once ordinary soul and later to
an entire society ?  Could it be some kind of cultural rebellion ?  Well, i=
t
very much is.  In fact, the term counterculture may seem more familiar.
Counterculture is the culture of those people especially among the young,
who reject the traditional values and behavior of society.         In
America=B9s cultural history, there have been those who have revolted against
the very norms in which our country stands upon.  From the early rise of
American Feminism in the 1700=B9s and through to the Gothic dwelling of the
late 1990=B9s, there have been countless prominent issues that caused such
mutiny against the norm.  There is some kind of mystery behind what these
groups want, and what exactly engage them to go against the usual standard
of living, but they leave a significant mark affecting the generations to
proceed.
    Focusing on the 1960=B9s decade, and using bits and pieces of other renow=
n
cultural uprisings of other decades, I  will compare and contrast their
ideas, in terms of modernization, social change, and answer what affect
counterculture puts on a society and what will happen if a counterculture
goes mainstream.
    Looking  into our country=B9s past, we ride a cultural roller coaster.  I=
n
particular, the up rise of counterculture.  Appealing to the youngsters of
various generations, subcultures were created.  These so called groups were
like gateways to a new and exhilarating lifestyle when the mainstream was
not attracting the people.  Participants wanted a new social life, somethin=
g
different that would take them away from their normal and rough living
conditions.
    The 1960=B9s, the mother of all counterculture decades, lies within
America=B9s cultural revolution as one of our nation=B9s most jolting and
significant eras. According to John C. Williams, author of =B3The 1960=B9s
Cultural Revolution,=B2 if, in every century, one decade stands out from the
others as a time of challenge and trial, anguish and achievement, within th=
e
twentieth century in the U.S. that decade is the 1960=B9s.  He also noted tha=
t
the 1960=B9s was a revolution in itself by almost any definition.  During thi=
s
time, Americans searched for a new way of living,  they rebelled against
the traditional moral conduct, civil rights violations, gender
discrimination, and, of course, the Vietnam War.
    The most immoral and notorious counterculture group, in no doubt, were
the Hippies or flower children.  Thinking of hippies you imagine, long hair=
,
peace symbols, tye-dyed shirts and the psychedelic sounds of rock groups.
They were the youngsters who were distressed with the mainstream society,
resisted the normal cultural practices and adopted an alternative
lifestyle.1   They turned to drugs, like LSD to get them relaxed. They also
did not take the wholesome Brady Bunch-like family style seriously.  Instea=
d
the Hippies, veered towards sexual freedom amongst various partners and eve=
n
polygamy type of marriages.  The Historical Dictionary of the 1960=B9s
stated,  the hippies revolted against materialism, sexual monogamy, war and
militarism, and all the hard work and social climbing. The hippies=B9
lifestyle was one that would change the traditional culture customs to come=
.
     Other groups associated to the sixties counterculture era, were the
antiwar movements, the civil rights movements and even student organized
groups whom rejected authoritarianism on college campuses.  Some groups
include; the Old Leftists, a Quaker group, the Friends Committee on Nationa=
l
Legislation, the Black Panthers and the Students For A Democratic Society
(SDS).  Each group vying for  rights and mainly rebelled against the
government to gain such achievement.
    Looking at the 1960=B9s, I feel most of the groups that had formed were i=
n
between being anti-modernists and moving with modernization.  Of course the=
y
searched for change,and by various means tried to make that difference.
    An example of an anti-modernist group is the Black Panthers, a militant
civil rights group consisting of young black males.  They were against the
white power structure and fought for any means of protection from racist
attacks, especially by police.   I would put them into the category of
aniti-modernists as well.  As a very aggressive group that used violence to
achieve their rights, I feel that they were not really into peaceful living=
,
while the modernization theory in terms of social change and the J-curve
states, society would be much peaceful and violence would lessen as
modernization occurs.  The Black Panthers counter that notion, and find
violence the key to attaining their goals.
    An example of a group between modernization and anti-modernization, are
the hippies.  They were really =B3digging=B2 nature and its various aspects.
Like I mentioned earlier they rebelled against the materialism of
capitalists, and sought ways of making their own clothes and growing their
own food.  In this event,  the hippies were traditional and tried hard to
steer from the modernized ways of living.  Although, at the same time, they
found peace appealing and was against war.  Again the modernization theory
implies, that society would get more peaceful as time passes.  The hippies
in no doubt, would be glad about that, but their state of mind was just to
confusing.  That is one reason that the hippies stand against the norms.
They wanted so much change and desired to attain too many goals.
    such groups in the 1960=B9s had a lot in common with previous and future
cultural rebellions of the twentieth century.
    Take the 1920=B9s for example, where on one hand the people were living
confidentially and optimistic.  John Dewey stated, =B3...faith in the active
tendencies of the day... the courage of intelligence to follow whither
social and economic changes direct us,=B2 showing life in the nation is movin=
g
forward.  Yet at the same time, the twenties was a time of uncertainty and
sense of doubt, the results of the war, confusion and the increased pressur=
e
and complexity of the postwar world. 2  The war wrecked the traditional
Puritan life, and the people had nothing to turn too.
    The cultural group that had risen out of this decade were the flappers=B9=
.
With the blend of short skirts, bobbed hairstyle and direct sex talk, a
counterculture would be made. The boost of Jazz music, brought sensuality t=
o
the society going through postwar confusion.  Moral doctrines once accepted
were now outmoded.  According to the authors Morpurgo and Rye, Freud and
Watson supplanted Darwin as a topic of conversation, reinforcing the popula=
r
preoccupation with extraversion and individualism.  The 1920=B9s flapper age
would leave an impact on America=B9s culture.
    The similarities between the hippie and flapper countercultures, are
very strong.  Both groups of each decade were created during time of war an=
d
struggle.  A time of postwar confusion, left the people searching for an
escape route from a troubled society. The people of the different time
periods would turn to a innovative living, for this instance it was
marijuana or cigarettes, awkward fashions and =8Cahead-of-its-time=B9 music.
    There are also some differences among the two cultures.  According to
what I think, the 60=B9s searched for group living and found comfort in mass
rather than individualism, like the 1920=B9s.  The 1920=B9s counterculture,
definitely attracted a mass of people, but it was for an individuals=B9
=B3benefit=B2.  On the other hand, the hippies, which attracted masses of peopl=
e
as well, searched for a new way of living and came together to achieve a
social and even political standing.
    The 1960=B9s affect on generations to come, came during the late eighties=
=B9
and the late nineties=B9.  Counterculture groups of Grunge music and the Goth
community had been created.
    Grunge music, a music genre with mixed sounds of punk and hard rock, wa=
s
a reaction  to the long, slow transition from hardcore rock of the 1970=B9s t=
o
soft rock music in the early 1980=B9s.  With a clashing blend of heavy
drumming and strong riffs, grunge music appealed to youngsters because of
it=B9s simple defiance and what seen as much needed =8Cgritty realism=B9 in the
face of an overblown, superficial pop-culture.3  Like the hippies=B9
psychedelic tunes, grunge music got the younger side of society following
their lead.  The lyrics in itself showed emotion towards the society and
feelings of unruliness towards the normal society.
    The arrival of the goths, came towards the late 90=B9s and venture throug=
h
the early stages of the 21st century.  The goths, dressed in black with
painted faces and gloomy facial expressions, more than likely was a
counterculture.  The gothic groups spread and appealed to teenagers all ove=
r
the country.  By the public, goths are seen as some kind of alien invasion,
which kind of motivates them to continue their ways.  In consideration to
the modernization theory, the goths are definitely in the category of
anti-modernism, because they find comfort in groups rather than
individualism.=20
    Observing the various counterculture groups I mentioned, a lot of them
have common goals in what means they are created by and are kind of unsure
of the choices they make.  Imaging them become mainstream is another thing.
    If a counterculture became the dominant and premier culture, the world
would thrive on diversity.  Modernization and even globalization would not
happen.  The values and beliefs of a counterculture vary, in means of
religion, family and other norms of a society.   This would kind of lead to
reverse modernization, instead of the world moving towards an
individualistic life, the society would be feasting on group orientation an=
d
going back to traditional ways.  In accordance to social change in a
countercultural world, our industry and economy would be more agricultural
and =B3homemade=B2 rather than the manufacturing businesses of today.   A
negative to that would leave our society in poverty rather than wealth,
because there wouldn=B9t be as many jobs out there as there are today.
Another aspect of living traditional, would effect our military.  It would
leave our world wanting war and everything totally based on warfare rather
than trying to gain peace.  That wouldn=B9t exactly be a good thing.  The
biggest kind of effect left on a society with counterculture as the dominan=
t
would be that between people there would be more relationships amongst
smaller communities in comparison to the large communities, with come and g=
o
friends and people definitely picking up a more selfish state of living.
    The change our society would be in is great.  There are some good point=
s
in a dominant counterculture, but with a good there is always a negative
side.  The difference in our lives would be huge.  We wouldn=B9t have as much
technology, which is needed for our economy, and we would definitely be in =
a
lot of wars, which would keep our society in postwar confusion.  The good
things are that life wouldn=B9t be as selfish and that we would work together
as groups to accomplish certain goals.
    In conclusion, countercultures have had it=B9s impact on our society.  Th=
e
effect has  been great.  Decades throughout our 20th century have had it=B9s
come and go cultural revolutions.  Each decade having different reasons for
coming about and each one leaving an influence for many to come.  For those
who reject the traditional values and beliefs of the average society, they
are seen differently by the behavior  and lifestyle they live.  At most
times their behavior is very flagrant and it is that way to gain acceptance
and achievement.  Most of the counterculture groups did come and go.  No
matter how the cultural revolts fell out of their time period they still
left a big impact on our century.
    Counterculture going mainstream would lead to major change and our live=
s
right now would be on totally different paths.  Politics, our economy, our
culture would be based on different grounds that they are now on.  Living o=
n
diversity and voiding the dominant cultural life would be a completely bran=
d
new experience.
    Culture is one of the most important and unique ways to distinguish a
nation, state, city and community.  Beliefs, values, norms and symbols,
represent the small aspects of one culture.  When the norm is rebelled
against, the prime distinctions of a culture lie within this change.
    Countercultures continue to rise and continue to fall.  Just like a
fashion, it gains popularity and spreads like wildfire, but all it takes is
a turn of the season and everything changes.  Countercultures will continue
to occur, and in times of distress the society will find that getaway from
the confusion of the world.
   =20

