Received: from listserver.its.hawaii.edu (listserver [128.171.94.11])
 by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.4 (built Aug  5 2002))
 with SMTP id <0H6Y00LGURMU3E@mail.hawaii.edu>; Wed,
 11 Dec 2002 06:40:07 -1000 (HST)
Received: from rapidash.its.hawaii.edu ([128.171.94.83])
 by listserver.its.hawaii.edu with SMTP id <347973(5)>; Wed,
 11 Dec 2002 06:40:01 -1000
Received: from conversion-daemon.mail.hawaii.edu by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.4 (built Aug  5 2002))
 id <0H6Y00J01R5V2T@mail.hawaii.edu>; Wed, 11 Dec 2002 06:39:41 -1000 (HST)
Received: from imo-r05.mx.aol.com (imo-r05.mx.aol.com [152.163.225.101])
 by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.4 (built Aug  5 2002))
 with ESMTP id <0H6Y00L8ARLYRY@mail.hawaii.edu>; Wed,
 11 Dec 2002 06:39:41 -1000 (HST)
Received: from CKYP76@aol.com	by imo-r05.mx.aol.com (mail_out_v34.13.)
 id w.195.120718ba (4222)	 for <soc100-l@hawaii.edu>; Wed,
 11 Dec 2002 11:39:21 -0500 (EST)
Date: Wed, 11 Dec 2002 06:39:21 -1000
From: CKYP76@aol.com
Subject: [SOC100-L:497] Christy Pascua-Final Essay
Sender: owner-soc100-l@hawaii.edu
To: soc100-l@hawaii.edu
Message-id: <195.120718ba.2b28c439@aol.com>
MIME-version: 1.0
X-Mailer: AOL 4.0 for Windows 95 sub 124
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-transfer-encoding: 7bit
X-Listprocessor-Version: 8.2.07 -- ListProc(tm) by CREN

    Symbols of society is one main aspect that is used to analyze culture.
These symbols are outward manifestations of the values and beliefs of a
specific culture.  By these symbols one is able to determine the moral codes
of a certain society, as well as their beliefs, traditions, even the social
stratification of a particular society.  One such symbol is music.  Music is
often the means used to educate youth, to preserve pieces of history, as well
as a form of entertainment.  For example, in African life, music was used to
teach children various tasks that needed to be performed.  African Gewels, or
Griots, preserved genealogy.  Eastern European and Indian epic songs
preserved the legends of mythical heroes of society.  In China, music was a
required area of study for all scholars.  The Molimo ceremony of the pygmies
of central Africa involved singing and dancing to venerate and honor the
spirit of the forest.  Thus, a study of music from around the world, and in
different time periods would reveal much about different societies throughout
the world and how they have changed over time.  This would make sense since
every society in history has a form of music.  In fact, according to William
Malm, there exists "many evidences of music that come from the very cradle of
civilization and give us our earliest clues as the first uses of music by
urbanized people [and] the oldest records of the ancient civilizations show
that music was already a highly organized activity." (Malm p. 97)  Music has
existed as long as human history.  Therefore, music, as a symbol of society,
would serve as a sort of narrative of the different cultures throughout
history.  This would also infer that by the movement of various musics to
different parts of the world would cause different cultures to adopt
different cultural values and beliefs.  This would in effect support the
theory of globalization, and in recent times, specifically the theory of
modernization.  By analyzing musical examples from the past and the present,
one may observe the effects of globalization, and perhaps get a glimpse of
what the future holds for modern society.
    History supports the idea that culture has a tendency to spread among
societies.  A close look at the music of various cultures in the past attests
to the fact that the movement of people across continents brought on a wave
of cultural change.  One point of evidence that music traveled over great
distances is the phenomenon of similar instruments, and even melody lines
existing in cultures that seem to have no apparent connection.  For example,
floating melodies, or wandering melodies, are melody lines that may appear in
several areas of the world, perhaps even on different continents, with
perhaps different lyrics, but are apparently the same melody.  These melodies
may have originated in one part of the world and traveled over great
distances through the current means of social interaction.  Many melodies
traveled along the silk road or other trade routes, or with gypsies, and even
seamen.  Thus, as the world became more connected, different societies began
unwittingly to share their cultures with one another.  Even the exchange of
musical instruments gives evidence of globalization.  For example, the
Assyrian harp of the seventh-century BC bares a striking resemblance to the
Japanese kugo harp of the eigth-century AD (Malm p. 98)  Thus, a single
instrument traversed an entire continent, as well as a sea to appear in a
completely different society centuries later.  The extent of this
globalization is not isolated to a few cases, but almost every culture has
been in some way influenced by another culture.  Other examples include
Chinese influence on Japanese music, Indonesian Islamic religion, along with
its sacred knobbed gongs appearing in Mindanao of the Philippine Islands, not
to mention similarities found throughout the Pacific rim.  However, these
examples of globalization are not limited to the far east.  They extend to
the other continents of Africa, Europe, and the Americas.
    The traditional music of Africa has been greatly influenced by various
cultures around the world.  African high life music exemplifies the extent to
which western societies have influenced traditional African musical culture.
While they preserve certain aspects of their own culture, such as various
instruments like the mbira as well as a host of percussion instruments, along
with various singing styles, like call and response, the western influence is
unmistakable.  Various parts of southern Africa have been influenced by
modern North American rock music, incorporating western instruments like the
saxophone and the electric guitar.  West and central African music has been
influenced by South American music, making use of Latin rhythm.  Other
African cultures were influenced by the Arabic nightclub scene.  While this
mixture of cultures helped build tolerance, and perhaps even a unity between
traditional African culture and the western world, sacrifices on the part of
African culture still had to be made.  To be acceptable to European taste,
African musicians had to compromise their traditional use of a colorful
timbre,     the use of some of their instruments, and had to adopt western
harmony and European language.  So globalization and modernization may have
helped build tolerance between cultures, but at what expense?  At the loss of
traditional culture?
    In some instances, a compromise was not even in the bargaining, and
cultural identity had to be disguised.  Both examples here presented are
those of African slaves that were brought to the Americas.  Slaves from
Africa were brought to Brazil to work on sugar plantations.  To exercise
their cultural identity, slaves used song and dance to disguise what was
actually a form of martial arts.  Capoeira is now known as a dance and a
martial art that preserved various traditional African musical instruments.
While this form of music allowed slaves to retain some symbols of their
culture, their counterparts in North America used western music to preserve
their sense of identity and history.  When African slaves were brought to
work on cotton and tobacco farms in North America, they were also forced to
embrace Christianity.  They used spiritual hymns, songs depicting biblical
stories, to express their indignation and suffering, the hard life they had
to suffer because of being taken from their homeland.  They also used it as a
means of escape.  In both examples, music was the means of relating their
history as a people, as a society.
    Another interesting phenomenon of globalization is that of the folk music
of the mestizo culture in South America.  Mestizo refers to a mixture of
cultures of the indigenous people of South America and the Europeans who
settled there.  The Europeans who came to the Americas brought with them many
aspects of their society, including religion and folk music.  The phenomenon
lies in the fact that if one wished to study traditional folk music of
Europe, it would be best to search out the Mestizo culture of South America,
because it was here in South America that these folk songs were preserved,
while in Europe, from which they originated from, they were more subject to
change.  Therefore, here is an example of culture being preserved through
globalization.
    More recent effects of globalization is easily seen in popular music
today.  The effects of western society on the far east is easily apparent in
today's popular music of Japan.  Many of Japan's young artists pride
themselves on their mastery of imitating English lyrics and western dance
styles.  Rap music has seeped its way into a society that is usually seen as
more conservative than western society.  Pop stars like Michael Jackson and
Celine Dion are just as much celebrities in Asia as they are in America.
    The music of the US does not remain unaffected either.  The recent surge
of Latin influenced music testifies to the mixture of cultures right here in
America.  Recent rising stars representing the Latin scene such as Christina
Aguilera, Jennifer Lopez, Marc Antony, Ricki Martin, and Enrique Iglesias, to
name a few, are more than proud to incorporate their cultural heritage, using
traditional instruments, rhythms, and language to do so.  Even in America,
the supposed leader of modernization feels the effects of globalization.
    Even more locally is the genre of Hawaiian music.  As most inhabitants of
Hawaii know, traditional Hawaiian music came from Polynesia with the first
inhabitants of the Hawaiian Islands.  Traditional music of Hawaii is much
different from the persuasive melodies played for tourists on Waikiki beach
evoking pictures of the perfect sunset.  Rather, traditional Hawaiian music
encumbered much of traditional Hawaiian culture.  Their music was based on
mele, or poetry, which was sung or chanted.  Since ancient Hawaiians were a
nonliterary society, mele was important as an oral tradition, a way of
preserving their culture and transmitting it to future generations.  Musin
had many functions in traditional Hawaiian life.  It was used to honor their
gods and leaders, to carry messages, to record history and genealogy, as well
as for entertainment and expression.  It was believed that performing certain
types of chanting that one could gain spiritual power or strength.
Complementary instruments were usually made of everyday materials such as
rocks and sticks, although they did use drums in their music.  However, the
western influence, which began with the arrival of Captain Cook, took its
toll and traditional Hawaiian music became almost irrecognizable.  The
introduction of the Roman Catholic Church changed the entire structure of
music.  Rather than the open verse chants of traditional music, the
structured style of the himeni, or hymn, took over.  Choirs sang instead of
individuals.  Western instruments such as the guitar, the steel-stringed
guitar, the violin, and the ukulele were added.  Even the hula changed.  In
the early twentieth century attempts were made to mix traditional and modern
Hawaiian music, which resulted in music that sounds much like the music we
hear in the tourist parts of town, idealizing Hawaii as the paradaisic
vacation spot to visit.  In the 1970's an attempt was made to return to the
traditional style of Hawaiian music.  Although this renaissance had some
success, today most Hawaiian music remains under the influence of different
cultures.  In fact, as time passes, more and more cultures seem to be
incorporated into Hawaiian music.  Reggae music, as well as Jazz, Pop, Latin,
and even Classical music have found their way onto the contemporary Hawaiian
scene.  Therein lies more evidence of the affects of globalization.
    The affects of globalization are readily seen though the analysis of
various musical cultures around the world in the past and present, but what
can we glean from this phenomenon?  What can it mean for our future?  One
fact that is apparent is that the worldly trend is a transition form a
traditional society to a modern society.  While this may mean a better
tolerance for other cultures, it may mean the loss of traditional values and
beliefs.  In the cases of the African slaves, as well as the mestizo culture
of South America, and even the mixture of traditional and modern Hawaiian
music, the integration of music helped cultures to blend.  It enabled
different societies to learn from each other.  One the other hand, each side
had to give up part of its culture.  Was the gain worth the loss?  Some
things that have to be compromised may, in the transaction, be lost forever.
Even when an attempt is made to revive a particular tradition, sometimes, it
has been last for so long that when it is revived, it does not return with
the same implications.  As explained by Mike Brocken, "although young
people...are ready to embrace music of 'past' eras, they do so in contexts in
which it is possible to rearticulate the signifier."  "While such folk
performances are viewed by many as reflecting a respect for heritage and
tradition, these images no longer represent the informal rules and
expectations that guide our everyday behaviour." (Brocken)  Even if society
is more open to music in different cultures, it does nor necessarily mean
that they understand the cultural implications of that music.  This is in
part due to the fact that with today's highly commercialized society, many
values and beliefs of culture are lost in the mix.  "The inherited categories
of high culture, folk culture and popular culture, together with the host of
associated aesthetic gatekeepers are being subverted by the heterogeneous
mass-mediated cultures of the computer age." (Brocken)  Globalization may
theoretically sound like a good idea, that all cultures will melt into one,
eliminating ethnic differences, and thus conflict and violence.  The truth of
the matter is, though, that while technology has furthered the world's
interconnection, it has also numbed society's moral sense.  The underlying
values and beliefs of cultural norms no longer seem to carry as much weight.
Perhaps this is because they can be bypassed through various media, like the
Internet.  Thus "technology is helping to challenge the conventional wisdom
of taste cultures in complex industrial societies."  As a result "the culture
of the folk music revival remains stuck in an 'ideal' form incapable of
adjusting to the 'real' and ever-changing patterns of society." (Brocken)
Youths today, brought up with the limitlessness of the Internet, can go
online and download music without learning their social implications, without
knowing the reason why that particular music sounds the way it does, without
understanding the moral beliefs behind the lyrics.  World cultures have
become so mixed that it is hard to tell the difference, but that difference
reveals much about cultural values.  Maybe that is why moral standards have
become so low in recent years, because of a lack of knowledge.  Although the
trend is toward a modern way of life, traditional values are still needed.
We cannot leave the past behind.  As Bruno Nettl points out, "the world's
societies survive by tying the present to their own past, and in this, music
plays a significant and sometimes indispensable role." (Nettl)  We need to
look at the past to move toward the future.  Since music is a symbol of
society, it is one aspect of culture that we cannot afford to overlook.  So
the next time you listen to that song with the different-sounding instrument
in the background, do not brush it off as another instrument keeping the
beat.  Think about its origin, its social implications, and what it
represents of the culture that it originates from.  You might be surprised
how much traditional aspects of music are incorporated into popular music of
modern society, its just a matter of recognizing it when you hear it.  So its
a good idea to really know what you are listening to.

bibliography:
Malm, William P. Music Cultures of the Pacific, the Near East, and Asia. New
Jersey. Prentice Hall. 1996
Brocken, Mike. The Tarnished Image? 1 July 2001.  10 December 2002.
<http://www.mustrad.org.uk/articles/brocken.htm#int>
Nettl, Bruno. Relating the Present to the Past  20 October 1996.  10 December
2002.  <http://research.umbc.edu/eol/MA/index/number1/nettl1/ne1.htm>

