Received: from eanuy.1afea.aol.com (unknown [152.97.201.175])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.8.7/ML970927) with ESMTP id OAA20090
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Sun, 11 Oct 1998 06:27:50 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Nick" <patti.browningkwtc@gmail.com>
To: <handyboard@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Save nerves and funds with reliable stok recommendations  Just out
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 1995 18:28:27 +0600
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: DmlPf9BZ2Xna764uHQt3J8uwCIK7xtKStq0k
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Investment tips and stok recommendations helping to earn more stok recommendation boosting stok performance Complete stok research information and recommendations Top factors causing stok booming and revenue increase 


Find what you need here: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!

Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:
• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.
CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split
China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY
China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.

Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.

stok recommendations and managing solutions Investment time frames, stok recommendations and highlights Premium stok recommendation services that allow earning more 








Top-performing stoks recommended by investment experts Price-sensitive insider information on stoks to boost revenues 



 Revenge is a dish best served cold. Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee. Fish ah deh ah watah but nah ah dam tap. A bad penny always turns up. True blue will never stain Actions speak louder than words. The best throw of the dice is to throw them away  A good mate is the road map for the spaghetti junction of life. Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day  Blessings Are Not Valued Until They Are Gone The bigger the better. Blessings Are Not Valued Until They Are Gone But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof. A Deaf Husband and a Blind Wife are Always a Happy Couple. Dont teach your grandmother to suck eggs Rain ah fall ah roof yuh put barrel fuh ketch am. A wise son brings joy to his father,but a foolish son grief to his mother. A happy heart makes the face cheerful, but heartache crushes the spirit The best things come in small packages On the Turf all men are equal, and under it  The devil find work for idle hands to do As you sow, so shall you reap The eyes speak as much as the mouth Fools seldom differ. The country is in ruins, and there are still mountains and rivers - japanese proverb Better to live on a corner of the roof than share a house with a quarrelsome wife Keep your powder dry  Manners maketh man Better safe than sorry Take your time and time will take you  Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them. A good man is hard to find. 

