Received: from lal48.iib8k0v.aol.com (c-65-96-33-78.hsd1.ma.comcast.net [65.96.33.78])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id LAA18719
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 8 Dec 1998 05:59:50 -0500 (EST)
From: "Bernadine" <aesthetic10i05lv@facehugger.com>
To: <handyboard@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Beneficial cooperation based on expert stock advice CGDC Never-seen
Date: Mon, 7 Dec 1998 23:01:22 +0800
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: f7OncjivGQXDFR9SsNBy9xQjOnm9f4XO4z2v
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Unbiased stock strategies and information from experts Investment tips and stock recommendations helping to earn more 
See our shop: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!
Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:

• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.
CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split

China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.
ABOUT THE COMPANY

China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.


Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.


Measurements and stock recommendations from top analysts Stock analysis tools and tips meant to increase long-term profits Measurements and stock recommendations from top analysts 









Expert stock suggestions and recommendations 



 The world is full of willing people: some willing to work and some willing to let them  Smile and the world smiles with you, snore and you sleep alone Better wed over the mixen than over the moor There will be rubs in the smoothest road Artificial intelligence is no match for natural stupidity. Where there's smoke, there's.. pollution. Smile and the world smiles with you, snore and you sleep alone Better to meet a bear robbed of her cubs than a fool in his folly The truth will out Don't count your chickens before they're hatched . We cannot be more sensitive to pleasure without being more sensitive to pain  The horses of hope gallop, but the asses of experience go slowly Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices. The Absent are Always Wrong Every rope gat two ends. There is no such thing as a free lunch He who laughs last, thinks the slowest! Keep your powder dry  In the land of hope there is never any winter A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. A ruler who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain that leaves no crops. Love conquers all Your day starts with what you say to yourself  After the storm comes the calm Good broth may be made in an old pot No man is wise at all times  Revenge is sweet Laughter is the best medicine Yuh gat fuh blow yuh nose where yuh stump yuh toe.	 Merry Nights Make Sorry Days But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Look before you leap 



