Received: from interval.louisiana.edu (daemon@localhost [127.0.0.1])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.4/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5) with ESMTP id j9QM9u6k007996
	for <reliable_computing-outgoing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Wed, 26 Oct 2005 17:09:56 -0500 (CDT)
Received: (from daemon@localhost)
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.4/Submit) id j9QM9uS0007995
	for reliable_computing-outgoing; Wed, 26 Oct 2005 17:09:56 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from itdsrvmail01.utep.edu (itdsrvmail01.utep.edu [129.108.0.82])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.4/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5) with ESMTP id j9QM9kCF007991
	for <reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Wed, 26 Oct 2005 17:09:52 -0500 (CDT)
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.5.7226.0
Content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="us-ascii"
Subject: Report re conference
Date: Wed, 26 Oct 2005 16:08:29 -0600
Message-ID: <77B4C8824930004AAC10E1B01576254A981FCF@itdsrvmail01.utep.edu>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
Thread-Topic: Report re conference
Thread-Index: AcXaecjMiovUQMIwTKeDIObkiAKlpQ==
From: "Kreinovich, Vladik" <vladik@utep.edu>
To: <reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu>, <interval@listserv.utep.edu>
Cc: "Dr. Oscar Castillo" <ocastillo@tectijuana.mx>
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by interval.louisiana.edu id j9QM9qCF007992
Sender: owner-reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu
Precedence: bulk

Interval-Related Talks at the
International Conference on Fuzzy Systems, Neural Networks, and
Genetic Algorithms FNG'05, Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico,
October 13-14, 2005

In October 2005, the newly formed Hispanic American Fuzzy System
Association (HAFSA) organized the International Conference on Fuzzy
Systems, Neural Networks, and Genetic Algorithms FNG'05 in
Tijuana, Mexico. The organizing committee of this conference included
researchers from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and
Poland; presented papers were also authored by
participants from other countries such as Cuba, Spain, and the USA.

MAIN THEME OF THE CONFERENCE
As the name of the conference emphasizes, there are many different
techniques for handling the uncertain character of our knowledge and
for processing uncertain information:

* fuzzy techniques help us to represent and process the uncertainty
  in the input data, namely uncertainty that comes from experts
  who use words from natural language like "x is approximately 5.0"
  to describe their uncertainty;

* neural networks enable us to learn the dependence between different
  variables from examples, thus helping us to come up with a data
  processing algorithms f which transforms easier-to-estimate
  variables x1,...,xn into an estimate y=f(x1,...,xn) for
  a difficult-to-estimate quantity y;

* finally, genetic algorithms enable us to find the values of the
  parameters of design or control which optimize the desired
  objective function, and thus, helping us to make decisions under
  uncertainty.

>From this description, it is clear that in many real-life problems,
we need to use all three of these techniques:

* fuzzy techniques to handle initial expert uncertainty of the
  easy-to-estimate quantities,

* neural techniques to describe the values of other quantities, and

* genetic algorithms to make optimal decisions under
  this uncertainty.

Some estimates for the original quantities come not from experts,
but from measurements; the uncertainty of these estimates can be
described by using probabilistic and interval techniques. Thus, to
adequately represent and process uncertainty, we must combine
probabilistic, interval, fuzzy, neural, and genetic techniques.

The corresponding "hybrid" methods, methods which combine several
such techniques, were the main theme of the conference.

INTERVAL-RELATED TALKS
Since the emphasis was on hybrid methods, i.e., methods which combine
different techniques, several talks mentioned
interval computations as one of such techniques. There were also
four talks with a strong emphasis on intervals.

1) The talk "From type-1 to type-2 fuzzy logic control: a
stability and robustness study", by Nohe Ramon Cazarez Castro, Oscar
Castillo, Luis Aguilar, and Selene Cardenas from Tijuana Institute
of Technology and the Tijuana-based Center for Research and Design
in Digital Technology (CITEDI) of Mexico's National Polytechnic
Institute (IPN), discussed control applications.

Since Kharitonov's pioneering 1978 paper, there has
been a lot of research about control stability under interval
uncertainty, i.e., stability of the controlled system ("plant")
for all possible values of parameters within given intervals. This
work was summarized in numerous surveys and in two monographs:
by Barmish (1994), and by Bhattacharyya, Chapellat, and Keel (1995).

There has also been a lot of research on stability of fuzzy control
techniques designed for situations when we have fuzzy uncertainty,
i.e., when instead of an interval which is guaranteed to contain
the unknown parameter value, we have several intervals which contain
this value with different degrees of certainty.

In real life:

* some parameter estimates come from experts and thus,
  come with fuzzy uncertainty, while

* other parameters are estimated
  based on the measurements and thus, come with interval uncertainty.

It is therefore desirable to analyze stability under such
combined uncertainty. At present, most methods for analyzing
stability under interval uncertainty are different from the related
fuzzy stability techniques, so there are very few results about the
stability of systems with combined uncertainty. The talk
presented new theoretical and experimental results about the stability
of systems which combine interval and fuzzy uncertainty.

2) A keynote talk authored by Daniel Berleant (Iowa State University),
Scott Ferson (Applied Biomathematics, Setauket, New York), Vladik
Kreinovich (University of Texas at El Paso), and Weldon Lodwick
(University of Colorado at Denver) overviewed the issues related mainly
to the combination of probabilistic and interval uncertainty -
although fuzzy uncertainty was also discussed. There are two main
issues here.

First, in many cases, in addition to intervals which are
guaranteed to contain the values of the measured quantities xi, we
also have partial information about the probabilities of different
values of these quantities. For example,

* we may have bounds on the moments of the corresponding
  distributions, and/or

* we may have bounds on the cumulative distribution functions; such
  bounds are called probability boxes, or p-boxes, for short.

When we use the corresponding measurement results x1,...,xn to
predict the value of the desired quantity y -- which depends on xi
in a known way, as y=f(x1,...,xn) for a known algorithm f -- we need
to know the resulting uncertainty in y. The talk overviewed
several methods for describing such uncertainty. As a case study,
the talk described the problem of predicting the cycle time y of
a computer chip, the problem which is very practically useful and
which is, at the same time, very difficult:

* the time y is defined as the largest time of different operations;

* the resulting function f involving max is thus not differentiable
  and hence,

* the usually efficient linearization and Taylor-type techniques
  cannot be directly applied.

The second problem is that in many application areas, when we
apply statistical techniques to determine the population characteristics
such as mean, variance, correlation, etc., we often use the actual
measurement results as if they reflect the population that we are
trying to analyze. In reality, after the measurements, the actual
values of the measured quantities are often only known with the
interval uncertainty. For different possible values xi from the
corresponding intervals Xi, we get, in general, different values of
the desired statistical characteristic C(x1,...,xn). It is therefore
desirable to find the range of possible values of C when xi is in Xi.
The talks described several algorithms for estimating this range.
As a case study, the authors considered statistical analysis
problems related to the analysis of microarrays data in
bioinformatics, where:

* some values are measured by well-calibrated sensors, so we know
  the corresponding probability distributions, while

* for other inputs, like the percentage of cancer cells in the
  original sample, we only have expert estimates which come, at best,
  with interval uncertainty.

The talk also discussed possible applications to processing
geospatial data in geophysics.

3) A talk by Martine Ceberio and Olga Kosheleva (University of Texas
at El Paso) described application of hybrid techniques in education,
specifically, in processing results of educational experiments.

Traditionally, researchers in math education process grades and
expert estimates by using standard statistical techniques, techniques
designed for the case when the processed values are exactly known.
In reality, these inputs are often known with high uncertainty.

For example, records often only reflect a letter grade (e.g., A or B),
but an A grade can mean any number of points between 90 and 100, so
letter grades really have interval uncertainty.

Some parameters used in data processing, like level of knowledge,
really come in terms of words from natural language (high, low, medium)
which are then converted into exact numbers. It would be more
appropriate, instead of representing these degrees as exact numbers,
to use techniques like fuzzy logic which take the corresponding
uncertainty into account.

Since traditional pedagogical techniques do not take this uncertainty
into account, many results of this data processing, while
formally statistically correct, lead to counter-intuitive results,
e.g., claiming that one teaching strategy is better when practitioners
have an opposite feeling. As a result of this disconnect, there is, in
the pedagogical community, a strong feeling of mistrust towards
statistics and towards data processing in general. Because of this
mistrust, serious analysis of numerical pedagogical results is
sometimes replaced by humanitarian-level political discussions.

It is therefore very important to take data uncertainty into
account when processing pedagogical data. On the examples of
teaching-oriented statistical data processing, the talk describes how
interval, probabilistic, and fuzzy uncertainty in the inputs can
be taken into account -- so that, e.g., in case of interval
uncertainty in the inputs, we should come up not with a single number
for covariance, but rather with the interval of possible values
of covariance.

4) The talk "Mediative fuzzy logic: a novel approach for handling
contradictory knowledge" by Oscar Montiel, Oscar Castillo, Patricia
Melin, and Roberto Sepulveda (Tijuana Institute of Technology
CITEDI-IPN) analyzes a new problem that does not appear in usual
applications of interval computations -- when we mainly deal
with measurement-related guaranteed intervals -- but which becomes
important when we use interval computations to process intervals
provided by experts.

One problem with such expert-provided intervals is that experts
sometimes underestimate the inaccuracy of their estimates. As a
result, two expert-produced interval estimates for the same physical
quantity may have an empty intersection. In normal interval
computations, this would be an indication that we must stop
computations and indicate, to the experts, that there is a problem
with their estimates. However, since such problems are common in
expert estimates, it is desirable to continue computations --
while still informing experts about the inaccuracy of their estimates,
so that later on, it will be easier and faster to make corrections
to the computation results rather than re-do all the computations from
scratch.

In general, if two experts provide estimates [a,A] and [b,B], then
our conclusion is that that the actual value belongs to the
intersection [max(a,b),min(A,B)] of these two intervals. If the
intersection is actually empty, i.e., if max(a,b)>min(A,B), this
means that the experts are underestimating the widths of the
corresponding intervals. In order to make intervals consistent, we
can, for example, add some fixed width d to the both sides of
all intervals, resulting in extended intervals [a-d,A+d] and
[b-d,B+D] whose intersection is the interval [max(a,b)-d,min(A,B)+d].

This extra width d should
be selected in such a way as to make the resulting estimates
consistent. It can only be determined when all the computations
are done. On the intermediate computation stages, we can still deal
with original (underestimated) intervals, but we can interpret
every such interval [a,A] as a short-hand for the actual (future)
estimate [a-d,A+d], for some value d which will be determined only
later.

>From this viewpoint, when we have two intervals [a,A] and
[b,B] with an empty intersection,
this intersection should be represented not as a empty set but rather
as an "improper" interval [max(a,b),min(A,B)], improper in the sense
that its lower endpoint is actually larger than its upper endpoint.
Improper intervals are known in interval community, this seems to be
an interesting new application of these intervals.

The talk also described how to handle this situation when, instead of
only interval uncertainty, we also have fuzzy uncertainty.

LOCATION
The Northern part of Baja California is known for its nice
Mediteranian climate. This climate makes it a resort area beloved by
vacationing tourists; it is also perfect for year-round living. While
attending the conference, we enjoyed the nice weather.

The area around Tijuana is also famous for its seafood, especially
local lobsters, which we also enjoyed immensely.

NEXT MEETING
The next HAFSA-organized meeting will be held on June 20-23, 2007,
in another gorgeous location: Cancun, Mexico. This time, HAFSA
will host the World Congress of the International Fuzzy Systems
Association (IFSA).

Interval-related talks are very welcome.

See you all in Cancun!

Oscar Castillo, Patricia Melin, and Vladik Kreinovich


