Received: from mailapps.uoregon.edu (mailapps [128.223.142.45])
	by smtp.uoregon.edu (8.13.4/8.13.4) with ESMTP id j9VJYSQA013679
	(version=TLSv1/SSLv3 cipher=DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA bits=256 verify=NOT);
	Mon, 31 Oct 2005 11:34:33 -0800
Received: from mailapps.uoregon.edu (IDENT:U2FsdGVkX191vEs3D4BOd501mTdjx6PusJ/DkQzBR44@localhost [127.0.0.1])
	by mailapps.uoregon.edu (8.13.4/8.13.4) with ESMTP id j9VJYGTM032050;
	Mon, 31 Oct 2005 11:34:16 -0800
Received: (from majordom@localhost)
	by mailapps.uoregon.edu (8.13.4/8.13.4/Submit) id j9VJYGPF032049;
	Mon, 31 Oct 2005 11:34:16 -0800
Received: from smtp.uoregon.edu (mserv1 [128.223.142.40])
	by mailapps.uoregon.edu (8.13.4/8.13.4) with ESMTP id j9VJYFLx032044
	for <gensci-list@lists.uoregon.edu>; Mon, 31 Oct 2005 11:34:16 -0800
Received: from uoregon.edu (kindling.uoregon.edu [128.223.162.61])
	by smtp.uoregon.edu (8.13.4/8.13.4) with ESMTP id j9VJYFrU013576
	for <gensci-list@lists.uoregon.edu>; Mon, 31 Oct 2005 11:34:15 -0800
Message-Id: <200510311934.j9VJYFrU013576@smtp.uoregon.edu>
X-Originating-IP: [128.223.130.143]
MIME-Version: 1.0
User-Agent: IMHO/0.98.3 (Webmail for Roxen)
In-Reply-To: <20051031185636.60771.qmail@web42405.mail.yahoo.com>
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Subject: gensci-list: Fwd: uo_pre_health: Health News November 2005
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
From: Heather E McInnis <hmcinnis@uoregon.edu>
To: gensci-list@lists.uoregon.edu
Date: Mon, 31 Oct 2005 11:34:15 -0800
Sender: owner-gensci-list@lists.uoregon.edu
Precedence: bulk
Reply-To: gensci-list@lists.uoregon.edu
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 665

HEALTH NEWS - NOVEMBER 2005

If you would like an announcement or meeting posted in the pre-health
newsletter, please email your submissions to loric@uoregon.edu.  The
newsletter is sent at the beginning of each month.  To get your
announcement
in on time, please email Lori no later than the 20th of the month
prior.  


STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS

.	Asklepiads Pre-Health Society
The pre-health society is designed to help students learn more about
careers
in the medical field and gain medical experience through their
preceptorship
program. They are meeting on November 1 at 6:00 pm in Willamette 110
and
membership is open to any interested students.  Additional meetings
are
going to be every other week at the same time and place.  The
Asklepiads can
be contacted via e-mail at premed@uoregon.edu .

.	Pre-Pharmacy Club
The pharmacy club is designed to help students achieve their goals
related
to any area of the pharmacy field, including but not limited to
careers such
as pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, and pharmaceutical sales
representatives.  This club is always open to new members who are
taking
pre-pharmacy courses or anyone who is interested in learning more
about this
field. The pharmacy club can be contacted via e-mail at
prepharm@uoregon.edu.

.	Pre-Dental Club
The dental club is organized to help students learn more about
professions
related to the dental field.  They also have a preceptorship program
which
will help connect students with dental professionals in the community.
The
dental club can be contacted via e-mail at dental@uoregon.edu.

PREHEALTH ADVISING

THE 2006 CLASS SCHEDULE IS CURRENTLY AVAILABLE ONLINE!
When was the last time you were advised by your prehealth adviser?  If
it
has been awhile please make an appointment to see your pre-health
adviser
prior to registering for winter term.  Registration for winter term
begins
on November 14th.  Check NEWS on the Registrar's homepage to find out
what
date and time you can register. 

Here are the pre-health advisers and their contact information:

Nursing, PT/OT/Podiatry/Pharmacy       
Lori Manson, 346-3211,
Office of Academic Advising    
364 Oregon Hall

Dental, Optometry, Physician Assistant, Medicine, Veterinary, and
Medical
Technology
Karen Cooper,346-3211,
Office of Academic Advising
364 Oregon Hall


WORKSHOPS/COURSES/ANNOUNCEMENTS

.	Preparing for the MCAT: 
This workshop will cover preparing for the Medical Admissions College
Test
including: structure of the test, dateof the test, scoring of the
test,
review options for the test, and use of scores.
WHEN: Wednesday, November 2nd, 4pm
WHERE: 360 Oregon Hall.

.	Choosing a Major: Unsure about what major you should select? Are you
worried about making the right choice? This workshop will help you
devise
concrete decision making strategies and identify campus wide resources
to
assist you.
WHEN: Thursday, November 10th, 3:30pm 
WHERE: 360 Oregon Hall.

.	How Can I Prepare for a Nursing Degree?: This workshop will give an
overview of nursing programs and the various pathways that lead to a
degree
in nursing. There will be a discussion of prerequisite courses,
curriculum
planning, and tips on how to decide which program is best for you.
WHEN: Wednesday, November 9th, 3:30pm 
WHERE: 360 Oregon Hall

.	BI 199 - Introduction to the Health Professions (Winter Term - CRN
20757 Wednesday 1400-1520): 
Consider taking Biology 199 Introduction to the Health Professions if
you
are thinking about a health related career but don't know which
direction to
take.  Each week of the class different health professions are
highlighted
with speakers from those professions presenting and answering your
questions. In the past years we have had speakers from allopathic and
osteopathic medicine, physical therapy, chiropractic medicine,
podiatry,
optometry, pharmacy, nursing,
nurse practioners and physician assistants.   

.	Career Fair: 
The fall career fair will take place on Thursday, November 10th from
2pm-7pm
in the EMU ballroom. This fair highlights different careers and job
opportunities within those careers.  It is a great informal way to
meet
future employers and gather information! Companies such as Pfizer and
Rite
Aid Corporation will be there. Nonprofit organizations such as
PeaceHealth/Sacred Heart will be there with information about
internship
opportunities and government agencies such as the Navy will also be
present
to talk about their pre-health scholarships.

.	Just in case any of you will be (or can be) in southern CA the
weekend of Nov. 12...

Western University of Health Sciences, College of Osteopathic Medicine
of
the Pacific (COMP), Pomona, California This is your chance to find out
what
Osteopathic Medicine is all about. What is it? How did it get started?
Where's it going? An alumnus will answer these questions and more!
8:45am to 3pm
Western University Campus
Health Professions Center
521 East Third Street
Pomona, CA
$15.00 per person, includes lunch.
Registration deadline: November 4
For more information, contact Jennifer Cortez at (909) 469-5330;
jdcortez@westernu.edu.

.	OHSU SCHOOL OF NURSING INFORMATION SESSION                 
November 16, 8:30am, on OHSU campus in Portland.  ONLY 75 SPACES
AVAILABLE.
Email andersje@ohsu.edu to reserve a spot.  Email your name, the date
of the
info session you would like to attend (Nov. 16), your address, phone
number,
email address, and your academic interest (Bachelor's degree? Master's
degree? Specialization?).

.	UNIVERSITY OF PORTLAND SCHOOL OF NURSING INFORMATION SESSION
December 1, 5-7pm on UP campus.  Email nursing@up.edu for more info,
or go
to their website for location and directions.  www.up.edu. Click on
Academics and then School of Nursing for their Nursing Calendar.

.	LINFIELD COLLEGE SCHOOL OF NURSING INFORMATION SESSION December 8,
6-7pm on Portland campus.  Email sbuffa@linfield.edu to RSVP.

.	Check the Health Education website for November programming that
may be of interest.  Go to http://healthed.uoregon.edu/ and click on
Calendar.

.	PRE-HEALTH STUDENT RESOURCES!  Go to www.studentdoctor.net and get
information such as professional school interview feedback,
Volunteering
information, resources and more.

.	ACADEMIC MEDICINE ONLINE 

The October issue of Academic Medicine presented articles on a variety
of
topics in academic medicine. Two are free to non-subscribers:
"Validity of
the Medical College Admission Test for Predicting Medical School
Performance" and "Clinical Myths of the Cultural 'Other': Implications
For
Latino Patient Care." The most widely cited journal in its field,
Academic
Medicine Publishes articles on the most pressing challenges facing the
leaders of medical schools and teaching hospitals today.
www.academicmedicine.org.

*	PEACE CORPS
The Peace Corps has exciting careers for pre-health students in health
education and HIV/AIDS. Every year the Peace Corps sends thousands of
volunteers overseas to poor communities to help combat disease, poor
sanitation, and provide education in nutrition, immunizations, dental
health, and more. The Peace Corps needs your pre-health training and
willingness to help others. The Peace Corps is a 27 month commitment
with
great benefits that include: student loan deferment, transportion
cost,
living allowance, complete health care, paid vacation, over $6,000
upon
completion, and an adventure that will change your life. In addition,
Peace
Corps' hands-on experience in public health education makes you stand
out
among the rest of graduate school applicants competing for medical
school,
nursing school, physical therapy, and related health care fields. The
Peace
Corps also offers fantastic opportunities to earn your graduate degree
while
serving in the Peace Corps through the Masters International Program
or
qualify for fellowships for graduate study through the Peace
Corps/Fellow
Program. Come find out more about your options at upcoming events:

Nov. 9, 10:00-3:00 EMU Information Table, 7:00 Information Session at
REI
(306 Lawrence St.)
Nov. 10, The UO Career Fair
Nov. 11 12:00 Informatin Session, EMU Rogue Room For more information
regarding your opportunities in the health care field through Peace
Corps,
contact me below:
Sarah Schrock
Peace Corps Campus Representative
pcorps@uoregon.edu
220 Hendricks Hall
346-6026
Fall Office Hours
Mon/Wed 1:00-3:45
Thurs 2:30-5:00 

*	INTERNATIONAL SERVICE LEARNING EXPERIENCE IN BELIZE JANUARY 1-15,
2006
Russell Stockard, Ph.D. from California Lutheran University will be
leading
globalization/communication and health care teams in Belize from
January
1-15, 2006.  Cost is $1985 (+$65 app fee) including airfare from Los
Angeles
International Airport.  Academic credit and financial aid is
available.  Go
to www.ISLonline.org for more information or email info@ISLonline.org.

HEALTH CAREER PROFILE

Each month we will choose a health profession to profile which will
provide
basic information about the profession and resources where you can get
additional information.  

In this month's newsletter we will be profiling D.O.'s (Doctors of
Osteopathic Medicine).  

An Explanation of D.O.s
D.O.s are similar to medical doctors in that they prescribe
medications,
perform surgery, and provide a variety of other services.However, what
makes
a D.O. different from medical doctors is their approach and
philosophy.
D.O.s take a whole person approach to practicing medicine when making
a
diagnosis, rather than only focusing on symptoms.  They believe that
all
parts of the body work together and influence each other.  In addition
D.O.s
focus more on preventing illness by teaching patients how to maintain
a
healthy lifestyle through diet and exercise.  

A Brief History
Osteopathic medicine was developed in 1874 by Dr. Andrew Taylor Still
because he was dissatisfied with the effectiveness of 19th Century
medicine.
He was one of the first people who studied the relationship between
health
and the absence of disease in the human body.  Dr. Still was a pioneer
in
the concept of wellness and the identification of the musculoskeletal
system
as a key element of health.

Pre-Professional Training
The path to a D.O. degree is similar to an MD degree.  After
completing a
Bachelor's degree, D.O.s complete four years of specialized training
at an
osteopathic medical school.  While at the osteopathic medical school
students get additional training in osteopathic manipulative
treatment, OMT,
which involves using the hands to diagnose, treat, and prevent illness
and
injury.  Then students complete an internship for one year during
which they
are exposed to all areas of primary care medicine, such as, family
practice,
internal medicine, pediatrics and obstetrics and gynecology.
Next, D.O.s complete their residency designed to last between two and
six
years allowing D.O.s to specialize in an area of medicine.  Lastly,
prior to
practicing, a D.O. must complete a state licensing exam and these can
vary
from state to state. 

A Few Interesting Facts
.	Approximately 65% of all osteopathic physicians practice in primary
care.
.	Applicants to both D.O. and M.D. medical colleges typically have a
four-year undergraduate degree with an emphasis on science.
.	The number of D.O.s has increased 67% since 1990.
.	D.O.s represent 6% of total U.S. physicians and over 8% of all
military physicians.
.	Each year, more than 100 million patient visits are made to D.O.s.

Student Profile
.	About 20% of applicants are non-traditional students who are
considering a new career in osteopathic medicine later in life.
.	Almost all applicants have a bachelor's degree.
.	Many applicants have earned a master's degree or doctorate in
another subject.
.	For the 2003 entering class: 
.	The average MCAT scores were 7.97 verbal, 7.76 physical and 8.26
biology. 
.	The average overall grade point average was 3.36 and the average
science grade point average was 3.23.  Please note that MCAT scores
and
grade point averages are slightly higher for matriculating students
than
scores reported for the overall applicant pool. 
.	Personal characteristics that osteopathic schools are looking for in
potential students:	
.	well-rounded 
.	good communication and interpersonal skills 
.	a record of community service 
.	a record of leadership 
.	some clinical experience 
.	participated in a variety of extracurricular activities 
.	diverse backgrounds 
.	motivated to pursue a career in osteopathic medicine 
.	knowledge of osteopathic medicine 
.	shadowed an osteopathic physician 
References
American Osteopathic Association www.osteopathic.org American
Association of
Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine www.aacom.org

For Additional Information
The History of Osteopathic Medicine Virtual Museum
http://history.aoa-net.org/ The Student Doctor Network
www.studentdoctor.net/do/index.asp


NEWS

Hospitals have changed charity care, billing practices for uninsured

Many hospitals have adopted more generous charity care guidelines for
uninsured patients after recent lawsuits and bad publicity alleging
aggressive billing and collection practices and overcharging of
uninsured
patients, according to a study released today by the Center for
Studying
Health System Change (HSC). Based on findings from site visits this
year in
12 communities across the nation, HSC found that most hospitals have
either
recently changed their pricing, billing and collection policies or
tried to
improve the clarity of the information provided to patients.
According
To HSC results, it is now common for hospitals to provide charity care
to
uninsured persons with incomes under 200 percent of the federal
poverty
level, and to offer sliding-scale discounts beyond this income
threshold, in
some cases up to 400 percent or 500 percent of the poverty level. The
research also indicated that changes in billing and collection
policies have
had little impact on hospital finances.
Information: Go to http://hschange.org/CONTENT/788/


National Academies release landmark report on U.S. science and
competitiveness

The foundations of U.S. preeminence in science and engineering are
eroding
at a time when the rest of the world is advancing and the U.S. economy
may
suffer for it, according to a report released last week by the
National
Academies. A committee chaired by Norman Augustine, retired chairman
and
chief executive officer of Lockheed Martin Corporation, and comprised
of
industrial and academic leaders, including three Nobel laureates,
Analyzed
U.S. research and development trends at the request of Senators Lamar
Alexander (R-TN) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM). The report, "Rising Above
the
Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter
Economic
Future," recommends scholarships to recruit 10,000 new teachers in
K-12
science and math; other scholarships for undergraduate and graduate
students
in science and engineering fields; increased federal funding for basic
research; extension of research and development tax credits to
industry; and
a reform of patent and visa policies.  
Information: Stephen Heinig, AAMC Division of Biomedical and Health
Sciences
Research, sheinig@aamc.org, 202.828.0488 or go to
http://www4.nationalacademies.org/news.nsf/isbn/0309100399?OpenDocumen
t


Health groups urge Congress to pass mental health parity legislation

Almost 250 healthcare organizations, including the AAMC, sent a letter
This
month urging Congress to pass legislation to end "continuing
Discriminatory
health insurance practices that arbitrarily deny people needed mental
Health
treatment." In a life-threatening event, such as the devastation of
Hurricane Katrina, access to mental health care is critical but is
often not
available to vulnerable populations. The letter encourages Congress to
pass
a full mental health parity law to end the practice of discriminatory
treatment limitations and financial restrictions in mental health
coverage.
Information: Go to
http://www.aamc.org/advocacy/library/teachphys/corres/2005/101405.pdf


LISTSERVE INFORMATION

If you know someone who is interested in receiving this newsletter
send an
e-mail to Stephanie at stran@uoregon.edu.

If you ever want to remove yourself from this mailing list, you can
send an
e-mail to <majordomo@lists.uoregon.edu> with the following command in
the
body of your email message: unsubscribe uo_pre_health

