Received: from aer (aer.media.mit.edu [18.85.1.138])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id LAA18894
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 30 Mar 1999 11:19:34 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <4.1.19990330104923.01de1870@mailhost.media.mit.edu>
X-Sender: khkramer@mailhost.media.mit.edu (Unverified)
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Pro Version 4.1 
Date: Tue, 30 Mar 1999 11:18:12 -0500
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Kwin Hultman Kramer <khkramer@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Projects and Class this week
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"


 ** Class time and place change: 6:30 -- 8:30 in the Roth Room **

Hi,

First of all, let me apologize for sending this message out so late; it's
been kind of a busy week!

As promised, I talked with Mitchel, Mike and Tod about the concerns and
suggestions that students voiced two weeks ago. We came up with some ways,
I think, to clarify the nature of the projects for the course, and agreed
that it is important and useful to do some reading/discussion as we work to
develop a deeper understanding of play, toys, and the potential
applications of technology thereto.

With all that in mind, this week's class will take place in the Roth Room
(second floor of the Lab), from 6:30 to 8:30, and will feature dinner and
several special guests.

Mary Ann Norris, once upon a time of the Lab, and now of Mattel, will talk
to us about the year she has just spent developing the Mattel/Intel toys
and brand. Mary Ann has volunteered to answer all the hard (and not so
hard) questions we have about how the toy industry works.

The team that built the Orbs for Tokyo Toy Fair will also join us, for an
in-depth look at a short-deadline toy-building project. The goal here is to
have a discussion about what the Orb folks got right, what they could have
done better (or wish they had had more time to do), and how this project
relates to the projects we will all soon be working on.

Finally, we will attempt to form project teams (for real, this time). Tod,
Mike and Mitchel would like to see three-person (roughly) groups that
combine people with complementary skills and backgrounds. These groups
should come to focus pretty quickly on concrete, manageable project ideas,
as there are only about seven weeks left in the semester. 

In order to help the process of idea-concretization (that's a technical
term) along, and to narrow down the number of groups so that there are
roughly 1/3 as many as there are students in the class, we went through the
list of proposed projects and picked out seven around which teams will be
formed. They are -- in short-hand, no particular order, and with a name by
them of the person who in my recollection gave the most specific summary of
each:

-- kites (Saul)
-- tradeable bits (Rick)
-- beads (Barbara)
-- accelerometer-based toys (Phil)
-- color and light kits (Kelly)
-- refrigerator magnets (Bakhtiar)
-- musical building blocks (Tammy)

The plan is to figure out who wants to do what, break up into groups, and
swear oaths of allegiance and eternal fealty.

Kwin



