Received: from interval.louisiana.edu (daemon@localhost [127.0.0.1])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5) with ESMTP id j5E2heoZ005416
	for <reliable_computing-outgoing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Mon, 13 Jun 2005 21:43:40 -0500 (CDT)
Received: (from daemon@localhost)
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/Submit) id j5E2hduK005415
	for reliable_computing-outgoing; Mon, 13 Jun 2005 21:43:39 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from cs.utep.edu (mail.cs.utep.edu [129.108.5.3])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5) with ESMTP id j5E2hVSG005411
	for <reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Mon, 13 Jun 2005 21:43:36 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from aragorn (aragorn [129.108.5.35])
	by cs.utep.edu (8.11.7/8.11.7) with SMTP id j5E2hCj09577;
	Mon, 13 Jun 2005 20:43:12 -0600 (MDT)
Message-Id: <200506140243.j5E2hCj09577@cs.utep.edu>
Date: Mon, 13 Jun 2005 20:43:13 -0600 (MDT)
From: Vladik Kreinovich <vladik@cs.utep.edu>
Reply-To: Vladik Kreinovich <vladik@cs.utep.edu>
Subject: International Seminar on Computational Intelligence 2005
To: reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu, interval@cs.utep.edu
Cc: egr@ci.ulsa.mx, ocastillo@tectijuana.mx, pmelin@tectijuana.mx
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-MD5: AQAn+19ka2AgZTwlDHcRMQ==
X-Mailer: dtmail 1.3.0 @(#)CDE Version 1.4 SunOS 5.8 sun4u sparc 
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from QUOTED-PRINTABLE to 8bit by interval.louisiana.edu id j5E2hbSG005412
Sender: owner-reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu
Precedence: bulk

Forwarding. Please notice that two of the seminar chairs, Dr. Castillo and Dr. 
Melin, are leaders in interval-valued fuzzy techniques, and type-2 fuzzy 
techniques (which include interval techniques as an important particular case) 
are among the topics of interest. 

------------- Begin Forwarded Message -------------

From: Eduardo Gomez-Ramirez <egr@ci.ulsa.mx>


Call for Papers

International Seminar on Computational Intelligence 2005
http://www.hafsamx.org/cis-chmexico/seminar05/
Mexico DF, October 17-18, 2005
La Salle University

Description

The International Seminar will consist of papers describing research 
work that integrate different Computational Intelligence (CI) 
methodologies for the development of hybrid intelligent systems. CI 
methodologies at the moment include (at least) Neural Networks, Fuzzy 
Logic, Genetic Algorithms, Intelligent Agents, and Chaos Theory. The use 
of intelligent techniques, like neural networks, fuzzy logic and genetic 
algorithms, for real-world problems is now widely accepted. However, 
still the performance of any of these techniques can be improved, in 
many situations, by using them in conjunction with other techniques. For 
example, genetic algorithms can be used to optimize the design of a 
neural network for time series prediction, or fuzzy logic can be used to 
combine the information from expert neural modules, just to mention two 
cases. Also, mathematical methods, like the ones from Chaos and Fractal 
Theory, can be used in conjunction with intelligent techniques to 
improve the performance of hybrid systems for real-world applications. 
The international seminar will consist of papers addressing these hybrid 
approaches and similar ones, either theoretically or for real-world 
applications. Also, distinguished internationally recognized invited 
speakers will give lectures on the main areas of CI. The seminar is 
intended primarily for researchers and graduate students working on 
these research areas.

Topics of interest (not limited to)

1.      Successful new applications to real-world problems of CI 
techniques that are found to achieve better results than conventional 
techniques. In this case, special attention should be given to the 
metrics used to compare CI techniques with conventional ones.

2.      Developments of innovative hybrid methods combining CI 
techniques and conventional techniques. In this case, the problems to be 
considered in these papers may not be as complex as the ones in the 
previous point, but the authors have to explain very carefully how their 
proposed method could be used, in the future, to solve real-world problems.

3.      Papers considering original research on new CI architectures, 
models or techniques are also welcome, but the authors would have to 
make a detailed description of how their proposed approach is compared 
with other related approaches.


Specific Topics of interest (not limited to)

·        Fuzzy Logic Theory

·        Fuzzy Control

·        Fuzzy Logic in Pattern Recognition

·        Type-2 Fuzzy Logic

·        Intuitionistic Fuzzy Logic

·        Fuzzy Logic Applications

·        Neural Networks Theory

·        Neural Network Control

·        Neural Networks for Prediction

·        Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition

·        Modular Neural Networks

·        Neuro-Fuzzy Models and Applications

·        Evolutionary Computing Theory

	

·        Genetic Algorithms for Applications

·        Genetic Algorithms for Neural Network Optimization

·        Genetic Algorithm for Fuzzy System Optimization

·        Genetic Fuzzy Systems

·        Genetic Neural Systems

·        Neuro-Fuzzy-Genetic Approaches

·        Intelligent Agents

·        Social Systems

·        Swarm Intelligence

·        Ant Colonies Algorithms

·        Chaos Theory

·        Fractal Theory

 


Distinguished Lecturers

Prof. Dr. Janusz Kacprzyk 
 Director of Research, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw Poland
TBA

Prof. Dr. Jacek M. Zurada
  S.T. Fife Professor of Electr. & Comp. Eng , University of Louisville, USA
 President, IEEE Computational Intelligence Society
Rule Extraction in Data Mining


  Plenary Invited Speakers 
 
 Prof. Dr. Carlos A. Coello Coello  
Profesor Investigador, CINVESTAV-IPN Mexico
A Short Introduction to Evolutionary Multi-Objective
Optimization and its Application
 
Prof. Dr. Edgar Sanchez 
Profesor Investigador, CINVESTAV-IPN Guadalajara
Discrete Time Recurrent Neural Control

Prof. Dr. Pilar Gomez Gil
  Profesora Investigadora, Universidad de las Americas-Puebla
The Role of Neural Networks in the Interpretation of
Antique Hand-written Documents

Format and Submission Procedure


Papers must be send by email, by the prospective authors, to the General 
Chair and the Program Chairs. The paper must be send as a PDF or word 
attachment with their email message. Paper submissions must not exceed 8 
pages and must be formatted according to instructions given in the web 
page: http://revista.ci.ulsa.mx/html/criterios_para_autores.html .

The papers will then be distributed to the Reviewers for evaluation 
according to their originality, technical soundness, writing, etc. (At 
least two reviewers per paper). Notifications of acceptance will then be 
send to the authors by email. The authors of accepted papers would then 
be asked to present it at the seminar, and send their registration form 
by the due date. The Proceedings (In CD form) will be prepared for 
distribution at the Seminar. Selected papers will be considered, after 
improvements, for a Special Issue in: 
http://revista.ci.ulsa.mx/html/editorial.html

Important Dates

Paper Submission deadline: June 30, 2005
Acceptance of papers: July 31st, 2005
Registration: August 26th, 2005
Publication (CD format): October 17th, 2005

Registration

There will be no official cost of registration to the International 
Seminar, only if the participants want to have the CD Proceedings there 
will be charge of $10 US Dollars for the proceedings. However, 
registration is strongly encouraged, as space will be limited to 50 
participants in this seminar. Deadline for registration is August 26th, 
2005.

Chairs

Prof. Dr. Oscar Castillo, and Prof. Dr. Patricia Melin
Dept. of Computer Science, Tijuana Institute of Technology
Mexico
Emails: ocastillo@tectijuana.mx <mailto:ocastillo@tectijuana.mx>, and 
pmelin@tectijuana.mx <mailto:pmelin@tectijuana.mx>

Prof. Dr.  Eduardo Gómez-Ramírez
Laboratory of Research and Advance Technology
La Salle University, Mexico
Email: egr@ci.ulsa.mx <mailto:egr@ci.ulsa.mx>


We apologize if you received multiple copies of this Call for Papers
Please feel free to distribute it to those who might be interested




------------- End Forwarded Message -------------




