Received: from interval.louisiana.edu (daemon@localhost [127.0.0.1])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5) with ESMTP id j5SICGwA020673
	for <reliable_computing-outgoing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:12:16 -0500 (CDT)
Received: (from daemon@localhost)
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/Submit) id j5SICFD3020672
	for reliable_computing-outgoing; Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:12:15 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from its-exsmtp1.marqnet.mu.edu (email.marquette.edu [134.48.20.169])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5) with ESMTP id j5SIC7Gm020668
	for <reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:12:13 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from its-exfe2.marqnet.mu.edu ([134.48.20.167]) by its-exsmtp1.marqnet.mu.edu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(6.0.3790.211);
	 Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:11:41 -0500
Received: from [134.48.169.123] ([134.48.169.123] RDNS failed) by its-exfe2.marqnet.mu.edu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(6.0.3790.211);
	 Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:11:41 -0500
User-Agent: Microsoft-Entourage/10.1.4.030702.0
Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:12:05 -0500
Subject: Sun interval patents
From: George Corliss <George.Corliss@marquette.edu>
To: reliable computing <reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu>
CC: George Corliss <George.Corliss@marquette.edu>
Message-ID: <BEE6FD25.19400%George.Corliss@Marquette.edu>
Mime-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/plain; charset="ISO-8859-1"
X-OriginalArrivalTime: 28 Jun 2005 18:11:41.0978 (UTC) FILETIME=[D5E2A7A0:01C57C0C]
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by interval.louisiana.edu id j5SICDGm020669
Sender: owner-reliable_computing@interval.louisiana.edu
Precedence: bulk

Friends,

After my message of yesterday (appended below, for completeness), Wayne
Hayes wrote:
> Interesting, George.  I thought that I had the feeling that you were
> against Sun's patents, but in your latest message you seem to have turned
> around 180 degrees.  Have I mis-interpreted your direction for the past
> few months, or have you mellowed with age in the past few months?  :-)

Wayne may have over-extrapolated in BOTH the past and the present.  The
truth lies between.  I wish Sun had not submitted it applications, but I am
sympathetic to at least some of their business purposes for doing so.  What
follows is long, opinionated, and philosophical, but I hope addresses some
of the complexities of the issues and suggests some ACTIONS.


I believe Sun's hardware-related interval patent applications probably have
merit.

I believe Sun's software-related interval patent applications contain
nothing I can recognize as novel.  Based on what I currently know, if I were
the responsible patent examiner, I would deny them.

I believe it is harmful to the field for anyone to attempt to claim as
his/her own the work of others, whether in a patent application, in a
journal article, or in other forums.  I believe that is what Bill has done.

Lest I be guilty of the same offense, some of the thoughts expressed here
come from The Entrepreneur's Guide to Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks, Trade
Secrets & Licensing by Jill Gilbert and from Jill's masters degree thesis
(copies available from me).

On the other hand, I hope and expect that Bill and Eldon HAVE invented some
novel wrinkles.  They are both VERY smart guys, and they have been thinking
about intervals and global optimization for about twice as long as I have.
If they have "reduced their ideas to practice" (the legal patent language; I
might otherwise say "elevated to practice") in a software package, I
anticipate seeing either refereed journal papers, Sun sales literature, or
both demonstrating impressive applications.

It is the job of a good patent attorney to write patent applications in a
way that gets new ideas covered without really telling people what the new
ideas are.  That is not how patents are SUPPOSED to work, but it is how they
often DO work.  I cannot exclude the possibility that Sun's patent
applications really do cover new ground I was not able to recognize.  I am
experienced in interval algorithms, but I HOPE Sun's patent attorneys are
even more experienced as patent attorneys.

I also have some modest understanding of how business is played, and I
understand stress.  Sun (and most businesses) are under tremendous stress,
which probably only increases.  Most technology businesses today live and
die on their IP.  Sun NEEDS as much legal protection as it can get for its
legitimate IP, and I do not fault them, under pressure, for casting their
net a little wider than might be valid.  If someone dangled under my nose
money in the order that these patents are probably worth to Sun, my
perspective and memory of who really originated the ideas would probably be
shifted a bit, too.  So would yours, I'd wager.

My heart goes out to Bill as a personal and professional friend.  I believe
he believed he was acting ethically and appropriately, and now he is
prohibited, probably on pain of loosing his job, from commenting on all the
discussion floating around about him.  Bill went pretty far out on a limb at
Sun for intervals, and we failed to produce for him the killer interval
applications he (rightly or wrongly) assumed we would.  I suspect he needed
to demonstrate to his management SOME business value from intervals.  Patent
applications add business value.

The patent process does not work well, especially for software.  I am told
that a patent examiner has a budget of about one working day per patent
application to decide to recommend acceptance or denial.  How can the Office
hope to have the expertise to make correct decisions on that budget?  Until
the taxpayers clamor for increased taxes to fund a better process, it is a
reasonable strategy for the Patent Office to say, "Most patents have zero
commercial value.  If in doubt, issue the patent.  If it turns out to be one
of the few that HAS commercial value, the people with more resources and
access to technical expertise than we have can fight it out in court.  Let
those who stand to benefit bear the cost."  I am NOT asserting that is their
strategy, just pointing out it would not be foolish if it were.

If the strategy of the Patent Office is remotely like that, it behooves
firms to file thickets of patent applications.

Suppose Bill had agreed with my perspective and told his boss, "There is
nothing new here."  How does he look?  Further, suppose that instead of Sun,
someone else, say from a few hundred miles further north, submitted exactly
the same patent applications as Sun did.  That firm almost surely would have
forced Sun to remove intervals from their Fortran, C++, and other software
(and probably hardware).  That scenario is not far-fetched, and I am VERY
certain that the interval community is better off with that set of patents
in Sun's hands than in the hands of some other giant software firms we could
name.

My worst case scenario is that Sun is weakened to the point where they are
purchased by another firm that might view Sun's interval patents
differently.

I've been as ingrained as anyone that ideas should be free.  I have also
been ingrained with the idea that people with good ideas are entitled to
profit from those ideas.  In academia, that profit is usually tenure,
promotion, salary increases, and a modest fame.  Others might prefer to
profit financially.

One point my university IP attorney explained to me:

Scenario 1: You have a great idea.  You publish it.  You go to a company and
propose they commercialize it.  They decline, because their competitor can
read your article and bring the same product to market.  Neither does their
competitor see an opportunity for competitive advantage.  Result: Your great
idea counts for tenure.  Period.

Scenario 2: You have a great idea.  You file for patent protection.  You
publish it.  You go to a company and propose they commercialize it.  Now,
you can offer them a guaranteed monopoly in the market, giving them a
potential competitive advantage.  Result: Your great idea counts for tenure,
AND it generates revenue to fund continued research.

Of course, only a few great ideas play out as this scenario pair suggests,
but a few do, and more could.  I believe academics are naïve to consider
ONLY the "all ideas should be free" alternative.

The goal of the interval research community has long been to get practicing
scientists and engineers to use our work.  We want people to use our stuff?
Then we are offended when Sun thinks there might be some commercial value
and competitive advantage?  Hello!?

Sun is our ally.  They are offer major vendor support for intervals in their
compilers, and they are aggressively promoting intervals to their customers.

In short, I see multiple sides.  I wish the world were simpler, but it is
not, and wishing does not make it so.


ACTIONS

The REAL question should be, "What are we doing to DO?"  Hand-wringing and
long messages like this accomplish little, although I hope I have helped a
few people better understand the complexities.

#1 Develop significant applications

As Ray as long advocated at every available opportunity,
WE NEED SIGNIFICANT APPLICATIONS, AND WE NEED TO COMMUNICATE
THEM TO PRACTICING SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS.

#2 Learn from the experience

We can learn much more about intellectual property issues, and we should
share those lessons with our students.  We academics can pretend all ideas
should be free if we wish, but the commercial world into which our students
go works differently.  We owe it to our students to better prepare them for
the world into which they go, and this is a decent case study.

For example, I have a faculty colleague who licenses software developed over
12 years by over 100 students, generating licensing revenues to the
university of over $250K this fiscal year.  He has relied on trade secret
and copyright protections.  If one of his competitors were to apply for
patents on his technology and approach his customers with hints that the
software they are licensing from Marquette might be infringing the new
patents, my friend could loose his $250K annual funding stream very quickly.
At my urging, he is retaining a patent attorney to consider filing patents
on new developments he is making each year, hoping to protect the older,
non-patentable technologies.  In a sense, Sun's patent applications are
similarly defensive.

#3 Make peace, relax, and carry on

We might be tempted to think it would be fun to see a headline in the Wall
Street Journal, "Sun Sues Xyz over Intervals," but a private correspondent
points out that the LAST thing the interval community needs is a Linux-style
public legal battle.  My grandfather was a lawyer and a judge.  He used to
say that in 50 years' practice, he had never seen a law suit won by anyone
except the lawyers.

I suspect examples of firms patenting technologies commonly used in narrow
research communities are widespread.  For example, I have been told that IBM
holds a patent on most of automatic differentiation (AD) filed long after
most of the claims had been done at Madison, Oak Ridge, Argonne, Rice, and
tens of other institutions.  The AD community is vaguely aware, and
sometimes laughs, but that does not affect their work.

It is hard to imaging Sun suing members of the academic research community.
First, we have little money.  Second, we feed them technologies on which
they depend.  Third, we are their customers.  Fourth, if they did, several
of the pioneers in the field would probably be pleased to serve as expert
witnesses for the defense at a VERY modest cost.  For example, if Ray came
and testified, "The concept the defendant is accused of infringing appears
on page x of my 1966 book," Sun's case is weak, shall we say.

#4 Interval Subroutine Library (ISL)

It is premature to discuss details, but a small team of interval researchers
has a funding request pending with a national funding source to plan and
explore the feasibility of a comprehensive Interval Subroutine Library.  The
concept is that in cooperation with NAG, Sun, and anyone else who wants to
participate, we assemble as much of the existing interval software as we can
into a unified, comprehensive, supported library.  One rough model are the
BLAS and LAPACK efforts.  Eventually, we aspire to scope and coverage
comparable to early NAG or IMSL libraries or the Numerical Recipes
collection.  The software should be available under some manner of open
license (note I do not specify "Open" license, at the suggestion of a
private correspondent).  One of many possible licenses is Sun's Common
Development and Distribution License (CDDL).

I believe an ISL is a positive response to Sun's patent applications because
it establishes a dominant, comprehensive, open (small "o") interval library
with clearly defined IP ownership assigned to the rightful originators.  Of
course, the main benefit is that when we succeed in interesting a scientist
of an engineer in interval tools, we will be able to say, "Here is a CD
ready for you to use."

The currently pending funding proposal enjoys the moral support and
encouragement of both NAG and Sun, as evidenced by letters/messages of
support from each.  Of course, we hope for financial support, too, at some
point.

#5 Become informed and work for reform of the patent process

There ARE efforts to reform the patent system, and knowledgeable scientists
might consider weighing in on the various proposals.  Would anyone care to
do some research and inform this community?  I could provide some pointers
from which to begin.

Dr. George F. Corliss
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Marquette University
PO Box 1881 
1515 W. Wisconsin Ave.
Milwaukee WI 53201-1881 USA
414-288-6599; Fax: 288-5579; Dept. 288-6280
Office: Haggerty Engineering 296
George.Corliss@Marquette.edu


My earlier message:

Ray Moore writes: 
> As a result of my previous email to this group, I have been contacted by
> John Busch of Sun Microsystems, and informed that anyone with specific
> concerns about Sun's interval patents should contact him at
> John.Busch@sun.com

I second that.  Dialog is healthy.

What follows is my personal opinion.  I am a university researcher, not a
patent attorney.  Nor do I speak for Sun in any sense.

In Sun¹s opinion, the patents issued and applications pending are new.  On
reading them, I see little I recognize as new, but the US patent system is
not well equipped to tell the difference.  Even if the patents are
questionable, it is in Sun¹s commercial interests to apply for them,
especially before some other company does.  Sun has proven itself to be a
friend of the interval community by offering commercial quality interval
tools and by modest support for interval research projects, including some
of my own (in the interest of full disclosure).

In my opinion, the academic research community has little to fear from Sun¹s
patent activities; our research helps drive their sales.  Other firms who
stand to make a profit from interval technologies (in our dreams, that is a
non-empty set) are well advised to discuss things with Sun.  I would HOPE,
and I believe, that Sun has the wisdom to welcome such overtures as partners
rather than competitors.  For example, I know of one funding proposal for
interval research pending in Britain with letters of support from both NAG
and Sun.

Again in my opinion, academic researchers are well advised to learn more
about issues of intellectual property.  Our STUDENTS need a basic
understanding, because the business that employ our students may live or die
by intellectual property.  Further, seeking intellectual property protection
for some of our OWN work can, in some cases, be a more successful path to
research funding than more traditional governmental funding requests.

Dr. George F. Corliss
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Marquette University
PO Box 1881 
1515 W. Wisconsin Ave.
Milwaukee WI 53201-1881 USA
414-288-6599; Fax: 288-5579; Dept. 288-6280
Office: Haggerty Engineering 296
George.Corliss@Marquette.edu





