Received: from leaf.ee.ufl.edu (leaf.ee.ufl.edu [128.227.241.137])
	by cs.clemson.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with ESMTP id WAA23104
	for <westall@cs.clemson.edu>; Thu, 26 Aug 1999 22:14:55 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from graduate.ece.ufl.edu (128.227.56.24) by leaf.ee.ufl.edu
 with ESMTP (Eudora Internet Mail Server 1.2); Thu, 26 Aug 1999 22:15:09 -0400
Received: from Spooler by graduate.ece.ufl.edu (Mercury/32 v2.16);
    26 Aug 99 22:11:45 -0400
Received: from spooler by graduate.ece.ufl.edu (Mercury/32 v2.16); 26 Aug 99 22:11:15 -0400
To: westall@cs.clemson.edu
From: faq@graduate.ece.ufl.edu
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 1999 22:11:15 -0400
Subject: (Hopefully) the LAST msg to fudan.edu
Message-ID: <73D6BB400808@graduate.ece.ufl.edu>
Content-Length: 12246
X-Mozilla-Status: 8001
X-Mozilla-Status2: 00000000

You have reached the Graduate Program of the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering of the University of Florida. Thank you for your
message.


This document contains answers to some common questions (FAQ) about our
program. Please read it carefully. If after reading this document you have
further questions, please email your question to the email address:
question@graduate.ece.ufl.edu  and mention AT THE START OF YOUR MESSAGE
that you have already received and read the FAQ.

NEWS FLASH:

The financial responsibility requirement has been reduced to one year...
>From now on, international students need to show only $22,060 ($22,800 for 
Fall 2000) in funds to obtain the I-20 form.

Q. Please send me application forms.

A. We will be glad to send you the application forms. The easiest way of
getting the application forms is on-line, by directing your web browser to
the address

http://www.ece.ufl.edu/grad_info/apply

If you encounter some difficulties with the web site, please try again
later, as the server may be busy.

If for any reason you prefer to receive the application forms by mail,
please send another email message containing only your name and complete
mailing address to

forms@graduate.ece.ufl.edu

Please note that you must send a message to this address in order to
receive the forms by mail. It will take about 8 weeks for you to receive 
the forms through the postal service. Thank you.

*) I have received the application package, and it contained only one copy
of the recommendation letter form. Can I photocopy this form ?

Answer: Sure, you can photocopy the recommendation letter form.

*) Is it possible to obtain a waiver for the Application Fee ?

Answer: Unifortunately, Not. We don't have a way of providing a waiver for
the application fee.

*) How do I arrange for my friend in the USA to pay the application fee ?

Answer: Send him/her your application package. They should add the
application fee to the package, and send the completed package to the
University.

*) Could you consider my application without official GRE and TOEFL scores ?

Answer: Unfortunately, we cannot. The University Admissions Office
absolutely requires official testing scores and official transcripts.
Without these, the admissions office does not refer your case to our
department, and we cannot consider you for admission.

*) Is it possible for an International student to obtain a Teaching
Assistantship or a Research Assistantship ?

Answer: Yes, International students can obtain Teaching Assistantships or
Research Assistantship. These are awarded on a competitive basis to the best 
students that apply each year.

*) What do I need to do in order to be considered for a Teaching Assistantship?

Answer: You need to take the TSE (Test of Spoken English), and obtain a
score of 55 or higher (the TSE is not required for admission).

*) I have not taken the TSE; does this mean I can never obtain a Teaching Assistantship ?

Answer: No; it only means that you cannot be considered for a Teaching Assistantship before coming here. Once you are here, you will be able to take the English Speaking test when you are ready, and we will consider you for a teaching assistantship when 
you pass that test.

*) What do I need to do in order to be considered for a Research Assistantship?

Answer: Research Assistantships are offered by individual faculty members
in your area of interest. Information about our faculty members, their
areas of interest, and how to reach them, is available on our web page, at
www.ece.ufl.edu

*) Is the money provided by an assistantship sufficient for living ?

Answer: An assistantship usually includes a tuition waiver + a stipend; the
stipend can cover very basic subsistence, but you may need some extra funds
to cover your living expenses.

*) Do I need to fill out the Financial Responsibility Form, even if I want
to apply for an Assistantship ?

Answer: Yes. The financial responsibility form
is a requirement of the USA Immigration Service, and is needed for your Visa to
enter the USA. If you obtain financial assistance from us, then we will provide
the funds required to certify the financial responsibility form. However, 
ONLY A MINORITY OF INTENATIONAL APPLICANTS OBTAIN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BEFORE COMING HERE.
A completed financial responsibility form is needed before you can obtain from us
the I-20 form, which is necessary for you to obtain a Visa to enter the USA.
Sorry, but this is a requirement of the USA government.

*) What percentage of International students obtain an Assistantship ?

Answer: This varies somewhat from year to year. Roughly speaking, about a
quarter of incoming International students receive an assistantship for
their first semester. Many more International students that excel in their
studies receive an assistantship after being with us for one or two semesters.
Ultimately, the majority of our excelling International students receive some form of
Assistantship.


*) What are the minimum requirements for admission ?

For the Master's program, the minimum admission requirements are a GRE
score of 1000 (Verbal + Quantitative), and a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.00.
The GPA is calculated by our office based on your transcripts, and the minimum
GPA for admission varies somewhat from country to country and from
University to University, based on our experience with past students.

For the PhD program, you need a GRE score of 1200 (Verbal + Quantitative),
and a GPA of 3.5.

For both the Master's program and the PhD program, the TOEFL must be at least
550, and the verbal GRE at least 350.

According to state laws, WE CANNOT ADMIT STUDENTS WITHOUT GRE AND TOEFL
SCORES.

*) How long does it take to complete a Master's degree ?

That depends on the course load you take. You need 33 credit hours for a
Masters degree, and 12 credit hours per semester is regarded as a full
load. It is possible to complete a Master's degree in 3 semesters.

*) How much does it cost ?

The total expenses for an International student, including tuition and cost
of living, amount to about $22,000 per year. Of course, if you obtain an
Assistantship, the cost to you will be much smaller, as the Assistantship
provides tuition and some living expenses.

*) I have recently sent some documents you have requested; have
these been received ?

Answer: It takes currently about 8 weeks for us to file documents
we receive in the mail, and prior to filing the documents, we cannot
answer this question due to the large amount of mail we receive. There
is though no reason for you to worry; our experience shows that virtually
all documents sent to us are received in order.

*) I have received an admission letter with no financial support; is 
there some other way to obtain financial support? Is it too late to 
apply for a Research Assistantship now? How can I apply for a 
research assistantship?

Answer: If your admission letter indicates that we did not have funds 
to provide you with initial financial support, then our office indeed 
does not have these funds. Nevertheless, there is still a good chance 
that you may obtain financial support one or two semesters after 
coming here, if you excel in your studies. Most of our faculty 
members are reluctant to hire Research Assistants they have not seen 
in person. Consequently, it is much easier to obtain an RA after being 
here for some time. It is not too late to apply for an RA, although 
the chances for obtaining one unseen are not very high. If you like 
to try anyway, please select faculty members in your area of interest 
from our web site   www.ece.ufl.edu

*) What forms of financial support are available for students that 
excel in their studies, one or two semesters after their arrival?

Answer: We have opportunities for Teaching Assistants, Research 
Assistants, and various Engineering projects on campus. 
The majority of our excelling students do obtain financial support 
from one of these sources after being here for some time.


*)  I did not take the TSE, or have obtained a score less than 55; 
can I be a Teaching Assistant anyway?

Answer: Unfortunately not; we require TSE with a score of 55 or higher
for new students to become Teaching Assistants, 
so they can teach in our Laboratories. No exceptions are made to 
this rule. However, the TSE (or equivalent test) can be taken here 
on campus after your arrival. If you pass the test with an 
appropriate grade, you will be considered for a teaching 
assistantship for a later semester. We cannot, however, guaranty you 
will obtain a teaching assistantship.


*) I have sent in all my application materials, but have received no 
response; can you please check the status of my application?

Answer: In order to make sure that your application has been received,
check that your check or other payment has cleared. The admissions office
does not permit us to consider applications without fee.

In general, applications do not get lost, since the documents for each 
applicant arrive from several independent sources (the applicant, ETS 
for GRE and TOEFL scores, and your university for transcripts). If some
of the documents are missing, you will be notified.

It takes the admissions office at least 8 weeks to enter your 
record into the computer system. Before your record is in the computer 
system, we cannot verify whether or not it is complete, since we have 
no access to the materials before they are entered into the computer 
system. The admissions office does not send you any notice if your 
file is OK; but you will get a notice if there are missing documents. 
So please be patient. Just make sure you have made arrangements for 
the admissions office to receive originals of your transcripts, GRE 
score, and TOEFL score (if needed).

After the admissions office record is complete, it takes our 
department another 3-4 weeks to make a decision on your admission. 
When a decision is made, we shall send you a letter immediately, to 
inform you. Please be patient; we are working as fast as possible. 
Thank you.

*) I have received an admission letter; when will I get my I-20?

Answer: It takes about one month after the admission letter to receive
the I-20, so please be patient. In order to receive the I-20, you
must have provided a correctly filled out form of financial responsibility.

If you do not receive your I-20 form on time, please contact the
International Studies Office at

mmicha@nersp.nerdc.ufl.edu

to check they have all your documentation. They are the ones providing the
I-20. If you encounter any difficulties, please contact me again.

In preparation for your trip, it would be a good idea to look at our web
site   www.ece.ufl.edu  and at the university web site   www.ufl.edu   You
will find there information about the University, Gainesville, and about
Student Organizations that can help you with your initial settling here.


*) I have been admitted, and I would like to obtain more information, like
starting dates, or housing information.

Answer: You will receive further information from the University, as we 
get closer to the start of the semester. Also, please check our web
site  www.ece.ufl.edu  and the university web site  www.ufl.edu  You will
find there a lot of information, and we are continuously adding more and more
information to the web site.

*) My admissions office computer record is not complete yet; could you
make an admission decision in my case anyway?

Answer: Regretfully, we cannot make an admission decision before the
admissions office computer record is complete. Before the record is 
complete, we cannot even tell you what your chances for admission are.
Very sorry. Altogether, the admission process takes about 12 weeks. 
Please be patient.

If the answer to your question is not listed above, you will obtain 
an individual response. I usually reply to email during my office
hours: Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, 12-1PM.
There is no need for you to send your 
message again. Thanks once again, and good luck.

Jacob Hammer
Professor and Graduate Coordinator
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611, USA

Phone: (352)392-6607
Fax: (352)392-8381



