Received: from ml.media.mit.edu (root@ml.media.mit.edu [18.85.13.107])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id VAA19595
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 21:54:47 -0500 (EST)
Received: from vygotsky.media.mit.edu (wireless-112.media.mit.edu [18.85.18.112])
	by ml.media.mit.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with SMTP id VAA07523
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 21:54:45 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <4.1.19990209193234.00bcee00@ml.media.mit.edu>
X-Sender: mikhak@ml.media.mit.edu (Unverified)
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Pro Version 4.1 
Date: Tue, 09 Feb 1999 21:56:44 -0500
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Bakhtiar Mikhak <mikhak@media.mit.edu>
Subject: more toys fot the PiP toychest
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

1. Programmable sewing machine (with a gLogo interpreter)

In addition to the functionality of the existing version of this toy,
children can generate their favorite patterns/embroideries in the gLogo
language (a dialect of Logo and a cousin of G-code that many commercial
sewing machines run on) which are downloaded to the sewing machine. Of
course, you can also download a pattern you have found or a friend gave
you. For safety reasons, once the sewing machine is running in the auto
mode, it will automatically shuts off if a child gets too close to the
moving parts.


2. Programmable cutters, pattern makers

Children can generate their own patterns algorithmically in pLogo
(postscript Logo) or graphically. They can also use ready-made pattern 
produced by other people or professional designers. The cutter will cut
these designs out of fabric, paper, or other novel material for children to 
sew or glue together (using double-sided tape) to make their own things.
The cutter can also have a setting for marking up the material so that 
children can cut it out themselves. Again, for safety reasons, once the
sewing machine is running in the auto mode, it will automatically shuts off
if a child gets too close to the moving parts.


3. Know-bodies toys (Mitchel came up with this name in a related project)

In the spirit of the Beyond Black Boxes project
(http://el.www.media.mit.edu/projects/bbb/) Know-bodies toys would allow
children to monitor their own bodies during the day by assembling their own
wearables. A cricket or RCX brick with a heart-rate monitor, a temperature
sensor, and a GSR sensor can give children a chance to get a better sense
of their own body and how certain parameters about their body changes
during the day. They can choose from a wide range of biomedical sensors for
assembling their wearables. They can see if the stories they can tell from
the data matches what they thought their body was going through during the
day. They could also make real-time wearable displays for these data. In
addition to the obvious example of using digital displays, more expressive
displays could be explored. For example, the color of a small pattern or
image (an application for eink of course) on their shirt could change
depending on the temperature or the music played from their musical jackets
could be appropriately effected.


4. autonomous R/C planes, boats, submarines, and cars

R/C planes are quite hard to fly for a beginner and are therefore quite
easy to damage or destroy. These planes can be programmed for automatic
take-off, landing, data collection (air velocity, ground velocity, wind
velocity, temperature, air pressure, altitude, orientation, acceleration,
structural stability and stress, aerial photographs, real-time video feed,
etc) while the plane does ordinary or fancy maneuvers, etc. Similar ideas
apply to boats and cars. They can all also be flown semi-autonomously or
fully controlled by the children as they get more experience.


5. mini-mini golf construction kits 

This is inspired from the story Mitchel told about his own mini-golf course
in his backyard and a project Mike Petrich and Karen Wilkinson did  with a
group of kids in the Science Museum in Minnesota. The toy proposed  here is
a construction kit for designing your own mini-mini-golf course and
programming what the sculpture near each hole would do and to what, in
addition to the ball in the hole, they will react.


6. Programmable athletic tools/supplies

Consider a soccer ball during a typical game: On average 
	how often is it kicked 
	how hard is it kicked 
	how high does it go 
	how far does it
	how often do you posses it 
	where does it end up after you have it 
	how much does it get deformed when kicked 
	how often and how many times does it bounce 
	how often is it headed, chested and can you tell them apart 
	... 
Or consider a volleyball in the volleyball game: 
Aside from questions similar to those above, how would it effect the game, 
	if you could program the ball/court/net to 
	let you know if you are not setting up the ball high often enough 
	let you know when to start jumping for a given set 
	... 
Or in tennis or table tennis: what if the paddle can tell you during or
after the game, 
	in striking the ball, what part of the racket/paddle you are using most often 
	from which side of the table/court you are scoring more effectively 
	from a given position in the court do use forehand or backhand more often 	
	what is the average speed and spin of the ball 
	what is the average rpm of the ball during a game 
	average height of the ball above the net 
	...

I should stop here even though it is too much fun to think of this type of
question for all the different sports. The point is that for basketball, 
volleyball, soccer, football, baseball, tennis, etc you should be able to
program the tools of the sport to get a sense of the answer to this type of 
questions. It's a nice context for many kids to get a sense of statistics
and check their intuition about the order of magnitude estimate for the 
frequency of events of interest to them. It should fun to share your stats
with others.


7. A yo-yo or top to think with 

Consider a yo-yo that can be programmed to record its (angular) velocity,
(angular) acceleration, the tension in the string, .... It would be fun to
be able to program it to recognize the various tricks you can do with a
yo-yo. The top could give you real-time data about its motion and the
fields it is moving through (for example the levetron is a toy that sees a
pretty interesting varying magnetic field). If it is covered with LEDs, for
example, you can have it generate different patterns depending on the
sensor readings.


8. This is inspired by a toy my kids really enjoyed. I think it was called
"light bright".

The same as the old "light bright" except that you can program the
arrangement of lights that you have put on the board. You can control their
 brightness and color and animated the image you produce. You can also
program the image/animation to respond to music or other sensors.


9. Here is an extension of an idea that I got through talking to my
daughter (9 years old):

She wanted a doll that would follow her so that she would not have to walk
along herself or push around in a stroller. In pretend play, she wanted the
doll to have a little autonomy. I asked her if she wanted the doll to talk.
She said; "no, not really". There are often times where she pretends that
her dolls are her students or her audience as she puts on a play. I asked
if it would be nice to have a doll that she can program to minimally
acknowledge her presence; for example it could follow her as she walks
around the room and talks to it. She seemed to like that idea (assuming she
was not trying to not hurt my feelings). Extending this idea it would be
nice if she could program her doll or stuffed animal to react to her in a
special way; e.g. it would only respond to her voice or to its name.
Additionally, the doll can record her pretend play session so that she can
listen to it later.


10.  Augmenting your site and hearing - out of the conversation with my son
(now 11)

A pair glasses that would overlay everything with the infrared data from
that object. A hearing device that would alter the sound you would hear,
for example to give the feeling that you are under water or sounds are
Doppler shifted. In general things that change or enhance your perception.






