Received: from dox.media.mit.edu (dox.media.mit.edu [18.85.1.147])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id HAA24860
	for <play99@mailhub.media.mit.edu>; Thu, 11 Feb 1999 07:34:25 -0500 (EST)
Received: (from mres@localhost)
	by dox.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/MEDIA) id HAA10723;
	Thu, 11 Feb 1999 07:34:25 -0500 (EST)
Date: Thu, 11 Feb 1999 07:34:25 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <199902111234.HAA10723@dox.media.mit.edu>
From: Mitchel Resnick <mres@media.mit.edu>
To: play99@media.mit.edu
Subject: Pretend Play
Reply-To: mres@media.mit.edu

In our first class, I mentioned a Boston Globe article about the
importance (and disappearance) of "pretend play" among young kids.
Here it is...

------- Start of forwarded message -------

Pretend play enriches development 	By Barbara F. Meltz, Globe Staff, 01/28/99 In years gone by, children in Cheryl Silveira's family daycare in Windham,
N.H., would get very excited if she found a refrigerator box. They could
play for hours pretending it was a boat or a house or maybe a space ship. This year, when she proudly plunked a refrigerator box into the play area,
the children'sresponse was far different. 
''They didn't do anything,'' says Silveira. ''When I said, `Wow! Isn't this
a great box, we canpretend all kinds of things with this!' they said, `But it's just a box.'''Silveira crawled inside and pretended it was a school bus. The six children,
ages 1 1/2 to 5, werehappy to crawl in and out with her but, says a disappointed Silveira, ''They
never got carriedaway with it. It never was more than a box to them.''When a box is only a box, preschoolers may be in trouble. The ability to create make-believe worlds lays the foundation for academic
learning and healthydevelopment, according to researchers. ''Being able to pretend is not a
luxury, it's a necessity,''says Yale University psychologist Jerome Singer. One of the nation's leading
authorities onchildren's play and coauthor of a classic on the subject, ''House of Make
Believe'' (HarvardUniversity Press), Singer is sad but not surprised to hear what's happening
in Silveira's BugleBear Day Care. Unfortunately, he hears it from teachers all over the country.
Martha Smith, who runs a three-day-a-week laboratory preschool at Ipswich
High School as partof the child development curriculum, sees the lack of imagination most in
children's artwork. ''Itused to be that kids would prefer a blank piece of paper for coloring and
they'd create elaboratestories to go with the drawing. Now,'' she says, ''they either want a
coloring book or they wantus to tell them what to draw.'' Smith, who has worked with preschoolers for
seven years,laments, ''They look to the adults for how things should be rather than
pretend how they'd likethem to be.'' There's no single, overarching reason why teachers are seeing less pretend
play. Silveiraattributes it to too much TV and computer time. Singer says it's that, plus
too many programmedactivities at too young an age, and overworked parents with too little time
to play. Earlychildhood educator Mary Mindess of Lesley College has another theory. ''Society in general doesn't value play as a learning process,'' she says.
''We want results, as intest results, so we push academics too early, letters and words at age 3. The
message kids get isthat pretending isn't valuable.''Perhaps the best way for adults to understand pretend play is to think of it
as a filter that enablesyoung children to view the complicated pieces of their world up close and
transform them intopieces they can manage. Because it is every-day experiences that loom
largest, these are whatchildren most need to examine and own. 
Consider how the preschooler watches several times a day as mom stops what
she's doing andgets very busy in the kitchen with her noisy, shiny objects. What is she
doing? Why can't sheplay anymore? This must be very important. By playing kitchen herself, a preschooler not only imitates the role of mom,
she becomes mom,says early childhood educator Edgar Klugman. ''First, she studies the person.
Then she imitates the actions, even the speech and movements. The more mom engages with her -
`To scramble an egg, I crack it against a bowl' - the more a child learns
rules of the role,'' he says. The more imagination a child brings to the play, the richer the experience.
Indeed, researchshows that elaborate imaginary play leads to increased language
comprehension, vocabulary,problem-solving skills, attention span, cooperation, empathy, and social
skills, according toKlugman, a professor at Wheelock College who is known for his research on
children'simaginary play. On the other side of the coin, research shows that children who have little
or poor experiencewith imaginary play are more aggressive in later years, have less
self-control and less success with learning. The positive payoffs begin to accrue as early as kindergarten and first
grade and continue throughadulthood, says Klugman. ''Without the rich experience of imaginary play as a
child, an adult isvery limited. Leaders tend to have had very good play experiences,'' he says.
Here's how make-believe play fosters development in three areas: Emotionally. ''Because a child plays out feelings as well as roles, it has a
cathartic effect:The things he's worried about will play out,'' says Mindess, who is
coordinator and founder of the New England Kindergarten Conference. Perhaps he was in a car accident with daddy. In his play, he'll re-create
the accident over andover, she says, until he has control of the events and the feelings are less
scary. Parents typicallydon't even realize this is happening, partly because we're too literal and
don't recognize the playfor what it is, says Mindess, and partly because children don't need
realistic props. ''They'revery good at using objects as symbols, a block for a car, for instance,'' she
says. Intellectually. As he observes something and acts it out, he learns about
it. Every week, the4-year-old goes to the grocery store. At first, he is intrigued by the
cashier, then watchful of him.One day in his imaginary play, he is the cashier. The next trip to the store,
he watches morecarefully because his play has made more aware of nuances. He sees something
he didn't seebefore, perhaps the numbers on the register. Next time in his play, he says
to the make-believecustomer, ''You owe me 10 -teen dollars.'' ''Even though there's a misunderstanding in the learning, it doesn't matter,
because it's aself-correcting process,'' says Mindess. ''He'll learn correct numbers
another time. What's moreimportant is that the pretending gives the brain the opportunity to make more
and more links.'' The more links there are, the more information the brain can take in, and
that makes a child moreopen to more experiences. In other words, Mindess says, the concrete provides
the basis forpretend play, but the pretending helps a child make it her own and learn. Morally. Because children use play to work through their own issues,
pretending may startoff as imitation but quickly branch out to reflect a child's perceptions.
It's in this way that valuesget absorbed, says Mindess. She gives an example of a preschooler with a
new-born brotherwho is caring for her doll, much like mommy cares for the baby, except that
suddenly she hitsthe doll and says, ''You're a bad baby!'' It's through that process, she
says, that a child'sconscience develops: She's working out for herself the moral value of knowing
it's wrong to hitthe baby at the same time she's coping with feelings of jealousy. ''Without
the opportunity to hitthe doll, the feelings are pent up and the child won't be as free to
incorporate the positivevalues,'' or to keep from acting on the negative ones, says Mindess. The more parents or caregivers can engage in pretend play with a child, the
more likely it is achild will make believe on her own, and the more learning will occur.
''Sometimes you just needto provide objects and show an interest,'' says Klugman. Other times, as with
the children inSilveira's care, ''You have to literally show them,'' says Singer. It takes energy, interest, and know-how and some parents are either clueless
or uncomfortablewith pretending. It's so important, though, that Singer has a new project in
New Haven to teachlow-income parents how to encourage imaginary play. Most popular is the
restaurant game:  ''You imagine you're in a restaurant and you sit at the table and you take
turns being the waiterand the customer: `Oh, I have two friends with me, so I need three seats.'
Suddenly your child'snot just having fun playing with you, he's learning numbers and words, like
appetizer, and he'slearning social amenities,'' says Singer. ''We pitch that it helps with
school readiness, which itdoes,'' he says. But it's even more basic than that. Pretend play is practice of real-life
skills. ''It's a rehearsal,''says Mindess. 

- ----
CHILD CARINGGames children play  By Barbara F. Meltz, Globe Staff, 01/28/99 As important as it is for parents to be encouraging and involved in pretend
play, it's alsoimportant to back off once her imagination is ignited. There's no bigger
damper to creativity than a parent who takes over the play. Children don't need store-bought toys for pretend play. Improvising with
whatever is around the house is often better. Observing a child's pretend play can give you a window into the issues she's
working on, buteven if you don't like what you see, don't scold her for the content of her
play. If it'stroublesome to you, talk to a professional about it. There's nothing wrong with a 3-year-old who only piles blocks up and knocks
them down, butyou can try to engage his imagination with a story around his play: ''Once
there was a big talltower that was the biggest building in the city, but one day there was a
giant who had such apowerful sneeze he could make buildings fall down. One day he had a terrible
cold...''
By age 4, children typically engage peers in elaborate pretend play where
they use props. Interacting with each other - ''Don't you know waiters don't say that?!'' -
they learn from eachother ways to interpret various roles.  Reading daily to your child or telling her stories is the best way to
encourage pretend play. 
------- End of forwarded message -------

