Received: from SZURKOT.vsyug.com (terminal-1-226.retsat1.com.pl [195.13.38.226])
	by groupfs.cac.washington.edu (8.8.4+UW97.07/8.8.4+UW97.09) with ESMTP id TAA26274
	for <mailarch+pine-info@groupms.cac.washington.edu>; Sat, 17 Jan 1998 19:35:57 -0800 (PST)
Received: from gmail.com (gmail-smtp-in.l.google.com [64.233.183.114])
        by SZURKOT.vsyug.com (Postfix) with ESMTP id X169IJCPJS
        for <mailarch+pine-info@groupms.cac.washington.edu>; Sat, 17 Jan 1998 21:37:48 -0100
From: "Issac" <hastings.sindy5wlz@gmail.com>
To: <mailarch+pine-info@groupms.cac.washington.edu>
Subject: Beneficial cooperation based on expert stok advice New and hot
Date: Sat, 17 Jan 1998 21:37:48 -0100
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: NnVgOxuFAPaIL4eMuPpmHoPG5ZzFKAjgxEFO
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Price-sensitive insider information on stoks to boost revenues Reliable methods of stok analysis and optimal buy and sell times Investment time frames, stok recommendations and highlights 


Take a look: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!


Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:

• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.
CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split
China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY
China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.
Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.


Advanced stok analysis and profit-boosting techniques Investment tips and stok recommendations helping to earn more Consider this insider information before buying stoks 







Climbing parameters of stok booming and market growth stok recommendations and managing solutions 





 Wasteful man money ah guh like butter in de sun. Happiness is not a state of mind, but a manner of travelling  For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life. It takes one to know one An ant may well destroy a whole dam  In a battle between elephants, the ants get squashed Night is the Mother of Counsel There's a light at the end of the tunnel. Better to aim high and miss, than to aim low and reach target! Absence makes the heart grow fonder. In the Land of the Blind the One Eyed Man is King The difficult we do at once, the impossible takes a little longer  Better late than.. pregnant. March comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb St Swithins Day, if thou does rain, for forty days it will remain, St Swithins day if thou be fair for forty days twill rain no more A drowning man will clutch at straws. Virtues all agree, but vices fight one another  Never put off til tomorrow what you can do today In a battle between elephants, the ants get squashed What goes up must come down Children should be seen and not.. spanked or grounded. Why bark when you can get a dog to do it  No one is expected to achieve the impossible All you need is love What's good for the goose is good for the gander. Take your time and time will take you  It takes one day to destroy a house but to build a new one will take months, perhaps years  Where the carcass is, there shall the eagles be gathered together  A drop of ink may make a million think. The best throw of the dice is to throw them away  Beautiful is not what is beautiful, but what one likes  Always yield to temptation, because it may not pass your way again.  

