Received: from authusersmtp.mail.cornell.edu (granite1.mail.cornell.edu [128.253.83.141])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.7-20031020/8.11.7/M-3.22) with ESMTP id k1S7MCt08206
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 02:22:13 -0500 (EST)
Received: from dreadnought.cornell.edu (r253240123.resnet.cornell.edu [128.253.240.123])
	(authenticated bits=0)
	by authusersmtp.mail.cornell.edu (8.13.1/8.12.10) with ESMTP id k1S7MBwq022711
	(version=TLSv1/SSLv3 cipher=DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA bits=256 verify=NOT)
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 02:22:12 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <6.2.1.2.2.20060223232734.02fe92c0@postoffice8.mail.cornell.edu>
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Version 6.2.1.2
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2006 02:22:17 -0500
To: egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu
From: Ari Rabkin <asr32@cornell.edu>
Subject: PAPER 10
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"; format=flowed


Samsara:
         Samsara is a system for fair disk space exchange.  The basic idea 
is that machine A is willing to store files for machine B, provided that 
machine B stores a "claim" on behalf of A.  This claim can later be 
transferred, so that B is storing files on behalf of A, in effect.  If 
users are unavailable, their stored data is removed, on a probabilistic 
basis designed to differentiate short outages from permanent cheating.  The 
system is aimed to stop greedy users, not malicious ones.  This is not 
necessarily a weakness, depending on the target user base.
         These scheme, to the extent that it works, works only for storage 
(permanent or RAM).  It has a number of shortcomings.  Much of the time, 
one might be willing to store on behalf of others more data than one wishes 
to store--some users are generous, particularly if the protocol is being 
used on a corporate or academic intranet.  Samsara does encourage such 
flexible policies.


Sharp:
         Unlike Samsara, Sharp attempts to solve the general 
resource-exchange problem, by building very basic primitives for resource 
exchange.  The fundamental abstraction in Sharp is the ticket, a 
non-binding, time-limited, agreement to supply some resource.  Tickets are 
transferrable and divisable, and are cryptographically signed in such a way 
that the chain of transmission can be audited.  Since tickets are 
non-binding, the ticket issuer can oversubscribe --and then act sensibly if 
presented with too many tickets.  Sharp is an extremely flexible mechanism, 
that puts few limitations in the way of agents seeking to implement policy.
         The authors cite oversubscription and transferable tickets as 
major contributions; this seems a perilous mix.  If tickets are passed 
through k holders, and each holder oversubscribes by a factor of r, then 
the total OD ratio will be r^k, which can be significantly greater than r 
even though no particular principal is responsible for this state of 
affairs; it may be wiser to bar all agents except the original ticket 
issuer from oversubscription.

PPay:
         Ppay offers a micropayment scheme, suitable for purchasing 
resources from peer to peer networks.  The system divides the world into 
[trusted] brokers and users, and allows users to transfer coins in a 
traceable way.  PPay in fact offers a number of protocols, for user-user 
transfers, user-broker transfers, and user-user, mediated by broker.  The 
key motivation is to push work from the broker to the owner of a coin.  The 
PPay model has a number of tunable parameters, in particular, the fees 
charged by brokers for minting and reassigning coins.
         The marginal value of money is very different for different 
individuals; it seems possible that there's no set of fees that is 
sufficient both to allow a large user base and to ensure that nobody is 
prepared to run an attack.  For instance, I may be willing to spend a 
significant amount of money to impoverish someone else.  The authors 
simulate their system to measure load on brokers.  It seems likely that 
this could be modelled analytically, giving precise closed-form solutions 
for broker load in terms of user preference distributions.  Though the 
authors do not mention it, a protocol seems necessary to allow two users to 
find out if they both trust the same broker, in order to exchange coins 
that will be accepted.  (Imagine user A trying to pay B with a coin issued 
by the People's Bank of Cuba).  It's not clear that the authors are solving 
the right problem: centralized systems, such as PayPal, seem well adapted 
to this environment.  A last pedantic point: coins are "minted", not 
"printed".  ;)

Karma:

         Karma is a quite general distributed resource exchange system. It 
only requires a secure P2P substrate, and some resource that can be 
represented as a byte string, and then offers secure transfers and secure 
balances.  Using secure routing in the overlay, the Karma system is able to 
replicate node balances in the overlay, and then to only transfer resources 
when the balance is sufficient.  This cleverly exploits existing work in 
secure routing and simultaneous-exchange: the new insight seems to be that 
these can be combined, with replicated nodes keeping balances.  The scheme 
is very simple, and secure against balances being altered maliciously as 
well as non-payment.
         Karma has a few important vulnerabilities.  First, since sybil 
attacks are possible, an attacker can dishonestly acquire significant 
Karma.  Note that an attacker does not need a majority in any bank-set, but 
merely a steady drip of sybils to feed him Karma.  Karma does not provide 
any guidance for pricing resources; such prices would presumably be 
determined by the amount of Karma in circulation--the average disposable 
income of a node.  This means that a powerful attacker or group of 
attackers could hoard Karma to depress prices (could get a corner on 
Karma).  The Karma is still in the system, so the inflation system will not 
devalue it, but the Karma won't be in circulation either.  (Amusingly 
enough, Jay Gould tried to do this with gold in 1869.)



Ari Rabkin  asr32@cornell.edu      Risley Hall 454   3-2842

The resources of civilization are not yet exhausted.
         --William Gladstone  

