Received: from postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu (postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu [132.236.56.14])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.7-20031020/8.11.7/M-3.22) with ESMTP id k1SHMBt23874
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 12:22:11 -0500 (EST)
Received: from webmail.cornell.edu (hermes21.mail.cornell.edu [132.236.56.20])
	by postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu (8.12.10/8.12.6) with ESMTP id k1SHM9SS003679
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 12:22:09 -0500 (EST)
Received: from 128.84.98.90
        by webmail.cornell.edu with HTTP;
        Tue, 28 Feb 2006 12:22:10 -0500 (EST)
Message-ID: <2742.128.84.98.90.1141147330.squirrel@webmail.cornell.edu>
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2006 12:22:10 -0500 (EST)
Subject: paper 10
From: "Abhishek Santosh Gupta" <asg46@cornell.edu>
To: egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu
User-Agent: SquirrelMail/1.4.5
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Priority: 3 (Normal)
Importance: Normal

P-PAY

deals with a secure micropayment mechanism.

A broker is used to handle accounts, distribute and cash coins, provide
security etc. Thus, the load on a broker is usually heavy and it also
serves as a single point of failure and attack. The authors

reasonably claim that utmost security is not required and that the payment
mechanism must be lightweight so that the cost of the scheme will be less
than the value of the payment.
the main disincentive for cheating is that the user will not be able to
carry out buisness in the future

due to bad credit.

in order to minimise broker involvement:
1) cashing coins involves a flat fee
2) when a  coin has to be reassigned in the case that the owner is not
present/or pretends to be absent,

the holder and the owner will both be charged a small fee.

users require a credit card to join the system which seems like a bad
idea. it further raises concerns about user anonymity.

SECURITY:  all coins are signed by private keys. this enables detection of
frauds such as replication,wrongful denial and double spending.

COIN RENEWAL :
to limit the amount of state kept by a peer, the coin must be renewed
during a certain time. note that the worst case time to detect any fraud
is equal to the renewal period. Thus the value of this time imposes a
tradeoff between broker involvement and fraud-detection time.

it also discusses "pico-payments" for small items such as message
forwarding or answering queries.



KARMA

karma represents a scalar value that represents the overall standing of
each participant. For each node,

a set of k nodes called bankset, keep track of the node's karma increasing
it when resources are contributed and decreasing it when resources are
consumed. the karma is signed by the node's private key to make it tamper
resistant.
the bank-set also stores the epoch number which along with other
parameters indicates the adjustments made so that the per-capita income is
roughly constant. However, each node must be aware of any node joining or
leaving the system to compute the correction factor which seems
burdensome.

the amount of karma for each object is selecting by an auction scheme.


each node is assigned an id beyond its control which is based on solving a
cryptographic puzzle result which results in a secure entry algorithm
preventing sybil attacks.

it is based on a  assumption that on the whole all objects are consumed in
an equal fashion - i.e. the number of downloads for each object per node
remains roughly the same. It could be the case that a node shares
unpopular objects and as a result its karma does not increase. We can also
look at it from another point and argue that it forces nodes to share
popular objects  so as to increase their karma.
In either case, the diversity of system-wide objects decreases.
A user may also suffer due to routing policies which do not balance load.





SHARP

provides a framework for a secure distributed resource management.

goals of such a system:
1) reservation of resources
2) prevent stealing of resources held by others
3) admission control
4) balance global resource sharing with local autonomy
5) it must be robust - protect resource availability
6) secure

STRUCTURE :

Multiple resource managers control different ,possibly overlapping,
regions of the global resource pool.
it uses the notion of a soft-state claim called a ticket that expires
after a certain period so that the system can recover the resources if a
claim holder fails. The ticket is presented to the site authority which
may reject the ticket or honor it by issusing a lease for any subset of
the resources or the term specified on the ticket.

All claims are cryptographically signed to make them unforgeable and
non-repudiable.

oversubscribed claims:
they improve resource utilisation but at the same time the probability
that a site authority will honor the oversubscribed ticket decreases the
with the increase in oversubscription degree.


confinement problem :
SHARP allows owners of the resource only a bounded amount of time for
carelessly certifying some malicious entity access to the resource.

The choice of a claim duration represents a tradeoff between
agility,robustness and renewal overhead.




SAMSARA

enforces fairness in a P2P storage system without requiring trusted third
parties, symmetric storage relationships, monetary payments or certified
identities.

it introduces the notion of a storage claim - incompressible placeholders
for storage. one node is responsible for issuing those rights while
another is responsible for consuming them.A node is responsible for the
claims it has forwarded. Thus, nodes would prefer not to forward claims
whenever possible.

To allow honest nodes to recover from transient failures, a grace period
is allowed for responding to queries. however, this leads to an attack
whereyby malicious nodes do not store anything but choose replicas only
for the grace period, selecting new ones as the period expires.
The authors suggest a scheme where failures are exponentially more harmful
for consecutive failed queries in order to protect honest nodes. However,
the attack above still exists.


the nodes also negotitate a Diffe-Hellman key during initial exchange that
is subject to man-in-the-middle attacks.

sybil attacks do not offer advantages as forwarding a claim yields no
advantages.

forwarding claims weaken data reliabilty unless a cycle is created whereby
data reliablity is restored.

the authors also indicate that this placeholders approach would not work
for renewable resources such as bandwidth and processor cycles.





















