Received: from one.refinacorp.com (greenday.secretservers.biz [72.9.254.91])
	by scott.skidmore.edu (8.11.7+Sun/8.11.6) with ESMTP id k1QBgLv05907
	for <irc-list-web@skidmore.edu>; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 21:38:02 -0500 (EST)
Received: from cpanel by one.refinacorp.com with local (Exim 4.52)
	id 1FYOh1-0007HY-A0; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 16:06:50 -0500
Received: from 88.9.5.209 ([88.9.5.209]) by 72.9.254.91 (Horde MIME
	library) with HTTP; Tue, 28 Feb 2006 16:05:04 -0500
Message-ID: <20060425093721.1ai7nlqshbr440w4@72.9.254.91>
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2006 16:05:04 -0500
From: wang qin <mrqinwang1954@netscape.net>
To: undisclosed-recipients:;
Subject: released
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Disposition: inline
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
User-Agent: Internet Messaging Program (IMP) H3 (4.0.3)
X-AntiAbuse: This header was added to track abuse, please include it with any abuse report
X-AntiAbuse: Primary Hostname - one.refinacorp.com
X-skidmore.edu
X-AntiAbuse: Originator/Caller UID/GID - [32001 32001] / [47 12]
X-AntiAbuse: Sender Address Domain - netscape.net
X-Source: 
X-Source-Args: 
X-Source-Dir: 

Qin Wang
Lloyds TSB Pacific Limited
Hong Kong Branch Two Exchange
Square Central, Hong Kong.

Attention,

Thank you for giving me your time, it is of great importance for you to take
care and understand every word which I have written down below; please be
patient and read the explanation in my email.

I am a staff of Lloyds TSB Group Plc. here in Hong Kong attached in Private
Banking Services, I am contacting you concerning a customer and an investment
placed under our banks management; as a matter of factit was 3 years ago. I
would respectfully request that you keep the contents of this mail private and
also to kindly respect the integrity of the information you come by as a result
of this email. I contacted you independently of our investigation and no one is
informed of this communication; I would like to intimate you with certain facts
that I believe would be of interest to you.

In 2001, the subject matter; Ref: FI/TSB/958/042/0500 came to our bank to engage
in business discussions with our Private Banking Services Department. He
informed us that he had a financial portfolio of 15.37 million United States
Dollars, which he wished to have us turn over (invest) on his behalf. I was the
officer assigned to his case; I made numerous suggestions in line with my duties
as the de-facto chief operations officer of the Private Banking Services
epartment,especially given the volume of funds he wished to put into our bank.
We met on numerous occasions prior to any investments being placed, and however
I encouraged him to consider various growth funds with prime ratings. The
favored route in my advice to customers is to start by assessing data on 600
traditional stocks and bond managers and 200 managers of alternative
investments. Based on my advice, we spun the money around various opportunities
and made attractive margins for our first months of operation,the accrued profit
with interest included, stood at this point at over 16.2 million United States
Dollars,this margin was not the full potential of the fund but he desired low
risk guaranteed returns on investments.In mid 2002, he asked that the money be
liquidated because he needed to make an urgent investment requiring cash
payments in Europe. He directed that I liquidate the funds and had it deposited
with a firm in Europe. I informed him that our bank would have to make special
arrangements to have this done and in order not to circumvent due process, the
bank would have to make a 9.5 % deduction from the funds to cater for banking
and statutory charges. He complained about the charges but later came around
when I explained to him the complexities of the task he was asking of us.

Cash movement across borders has become especially strict since the incidents of
9/11. I contacted my affiliate in Europe and had the funds available in mainland
Europe, I undertook all the processes and made sure I followed his precise
instructions to the letter and had the funds deposited in a security
consultancy firm, the firm is a specialist private firm that accepts deposits
from high net worth individuals and blue chip corporations that handle valuable
products or undertake transactions that need immediate access to cash. This
small and highly private organization is familiar especially to the highly
placed and well-connected organizations. In line with instructions, the money
was deposited; he told me he wanted the money there in anticipation of his
arrival from Norway later that week. This was the last communication we had,
this transpired aroundbFebruary 25th 2003. In June last year, we got a call
from the security firm informing us of the inactivity of that particular
portfolio. This was an astounding position as far as I was concerned, given the
fact that I managed the private banking sector I was the only one who knew about
the deposit, and I could not understand why he had not come forward to claim his
deposit.

I made futile efforts to locate him I immediately passed the task of locating
him to the internal investigations department of our bank. Four days later,
information started to trickle in, that he was apparently dead, a person who
suited his description was declared dead of a heart attack in Cannes, South of
France; we were soon enough able to gather more information and the cause of
death was confirmed. The bank immediately launched an investigation into
possible surviving next of kin to alert about the situation and also to come
forward to claim his estate. If you are familiar with private banking affairs,
those who patronize our services usually prefer anonymity, but also some levels
of detachment from conventional processes. In his bio-data form, he listed no
next of kin. In the field of private banking, opening an account with us means
no one will know of its existence, accounts are rarely held under a name;
depositors use numbers and codes to make the accounts anonymous. This bank also
gives the choice to depositors of having their mail sent to them or held at the
bank itself, ensuring that there are no traces of the account and as I said,
rarely do they nominate next of kin. Private banking clients apart from not
nominating next of kin also usually in most cases leave wills in our care, in
this case; he died Intestate.

In line with our internal processes for account holders who have passed away, we
instituted our own investigations in good faith to determine who should have
right to claim the estate, this investigation for several months were futile.
We have scanned every continent and used our private investigation affiliate
companies to get to the root of the problem. It is this investigation that
resulted in my decision to obtain your contact details and contact you, being
as a foreigner or rather non-Asian, as a potential benefactor of the estate
even if you are in no way affiliated with this individual (the deceased).My
official capacity dictates that I am the only party to supervise the
investigation and the only party to receive the results of the investigation.
What this means, with you being a foreigner, I have considered the fact that
our dear late fellow died with no known or identifiable family member. This
leaves me as the only person with the full picture of what the prevailing
situation is in relation to the deposit and the late beneficiary of the
deposit. According to practice, the firm shall by the end of this financial
year broadcast a request for statements of claim to our bank, failing to
receive viable claims they will most probably revert the deposit back to our
bank.This will result in the money entering our bank's accounting system and
the portfolio will be out of my hands and out of the Private Banking Services
Department. This will not happen if I have my way.


What I wish to relate to you might be a smack of unethical practice but I want
you to understand something; it is only an outsider to the banking world who
finds the internal politics of the banking world aberrational. The world of
private banking especially is fraught with huge rewards for those who occupy
certain offices and oversee certain portfolios; you should have begun by now to
put together the general direction of what I propose. There is USD$
15,991,674(Thirteen million, nine hundred and ninety one thousand, six hundred
and seventy four united states dollars) deposited, I alone have the deposit
details and they will release the deposit to no one unless I instruct them to do
so.

I alone know of the existence of this deposit for as far as the finance firm is
concerned, the transaction with our deceased customer concluded when I sent the
funds to the firm, all outstanding interactions in relation to the file are just
customer services and due process. The finance firm has no single idea of what's
the history or nature of the deposit, they are simply awaiting instructions to
release the deposit to any party that comes forward, and this is the situation.
This bank has spent great amounts of money trying to track the family of the
deceased; they have investigated for months and have found no family but
however the investigation has officially come to an end.

My proposal; I am prepared to place you in a position whereby an instruction is
given to the finance firm to officially release the deposit to you as the
closest surviving relation/associate, and all etiquette shall be done in
accordance with the rule of law, I certainly can guarantee you that. By the
common law,the power of bequeathing is coeval with the first rudiments of the
law, and this power has been extended to all a man's Personal and Real estate
(Personalty & Realty). There is no ruling which prevents an inheritance from
being so exhausted by legacies as to render it unworthy of the heir's
acceptance; basically all persons of sound mind are competent to bequeath and
devise real and personal estate, excepting infants, with all this I would say
we have the clear advantage to carry out a smooth and perfect operation whereby
the paper work shall be coordinated in such a way that your status as a sole
beneficiary is confirmed. Upon receipt of the deposit, I am prepared to share
the money with you in half and no more; that is: I will simply nominate you as
the next of kin and have them release the deposit to you; afterwards we share
the proceeds 50/50.

I would have gone ahead to ask the funds be released to me, but that would have
drawn a straight line to me and my involvement in claiming the deposit, but on
the other hand, you as a indifferent foreigner would easily pass as the
beneficiary with the rights to claim, I assure you that I could have the
deposit released to you in a few days. I will simply inform our bank of the
final closing of the file relating to the customer, I will then officially
communicate with the finance company and instruct them to release the deposit
to you; with these two things: all is done.The alternative would be for us to
have the firm direct the funds to another bank with you as account holder, this
way there will be no need for you to think of receiving the money from the firm.
We can fine-tune this based on our interactions, I am aware of the consequences
of this proposal and I ask that if you find no interest in this project that
you should discard this mail. I ask also, that you do not be vindictive or
destructive, if my offer is of no appeal to you, delete this message and forget
I ever contacted you; please not destroy my career because you do not approve of
my proposal. You may not know this but people like me who have made tidy sums
out of comparable situations run the whole private banking sector, I am not a
criminal and what I do, I do not find against good conscience, this may be hard
for you to understand, but the dynamics of my industry dictates that I make this
move. Such opportunities only come ones' way once in a lifetime. I cannot let
this chance pass me by and I hope you understand,because for once I found
myself in total control and face to face with my destiny. These chances won't
pass me by, I ask that you do not destroy my chance, if you will not work with
me please let me know, and hence move on with my life, but do not destroy me; I
am a family man and this is an occasion to provide them with new opportunities.
There is a reward for this project and it is a task well worth undertaking, I
have evaluated the risks and the only risk I have here is from you refusing to
work with me and alerting my bank; I am the only one who knows of this
situation,good fortune will bless you and plant you into the center of
relevance in my life, let?s share the blessing.

If you find yourself interested to work with me,please contact me specifically,
through this email account mrqinwang1954@netscap.net if you give me positive
signals, I will initiate this process towards a quick conclusion.It is
necessary to inform you that under no condition should you contact me via
official channels; I will simply deny knowing you and about this project. I
repeat, I do not want you contacting me through our official lines neither do I
want you contacting me through my official email account. Contact me only
through this email address above; I do not want any direct link between you and
me. My official lines are not secure lines as they are periodically monitored to
assess our level of customer care in line with our Total Quality Management
policy, please observe this instruction religiously. Please, again, note I am a
family man; I happily married with kids, I send you this mail not without a
measure of fear as to what the consequences might be, but I know within me that
nothing ventured is nothing gained and that success and riches never come easy
or on a platter of gold,this is the one truth I have learned from my private
banking clients; do not betray my confidence. If we can be of one accord I
shall have the pleasure of meeting you, after this task has been completed we
can plan a meeting.

I await your response.

Yours Sincerely,

Qin Wang
