Received: from imo18.mx.aol.com (imo18.mx.aol.com [198.81.17.8])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id IAA00586
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 4 May 1999 08:59:26 -0400 (EDT)
From: FThompson9@aol.com
Received: from FThompson9@aol.com (14369)
	by imo18.mx.aol.com (IMOv20) id yNQWa16144
	 for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 4 May 1999 08:58:23 -0400 (EDT)
Message-Id: <8ee0efd9.246048ef@aol.com>
Date: Tue, 4 May 1999 08:58:23 EDT
Subject: RE: Battery Status
To: handyboard@media.mit.edu
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: AOL 4.0 for Windows 95 sub 13

	I have quite a few battery discharge curves lying around, and one 
thing I can tell you is that they are all different.  Generally they start at 
a high voltage, quickly discharge to a normal operating voltage, hold that 
voltage for a majority of their life, and finally roll off around a "Knee."  
There is a slope in the normal operating voltage region of the curve, but it 
is very small especially compared to the other operating regions.  It is easy 
to tell when the battery has reached its knee, but once the knee shows up you 
have very little battery life to work with.  The big catch with all this is 
that these battery curves are all made under constant current conditions.  (I 
have a device called "The Battery Tool" which places a programmed current 
load on the battery, and measures the voltage every second.  The computer 
program on the controlling computer, plots the curves, and computes useful 
information.)  A robot uses everything except a constant current.
	I get the impression that you would like to know the status of the 
battery so that your robot can do something about the battery (seek a 
charging station) when the battery reaches a certain level.  I think that you 
will have a hard time doing this with the Handy Board as it is currently 
made.  Measuring the battery terminal voltage will certainly tell you more 
than you currently get (nothing).  But you will have to jump through some 
extra hoops to get useful information out of if.  The first thing you will 
need to do is to find a way to "idle" the robot while you make your voltage 
measurement.  You don't have to remove the load, just make it the same for 
each measurement.  Second you will need a history of typical behavior.  
Finally you will need a way to update that typical history as the battery 
ages.  You could probably do the last two parts in the same algorithm if you 
can set the initial conditions right.
	I personally feel that the right way to go is with a smart power 
source.  This is where your NiCads are packaged with a microcontroller and 
current sensor.  The Micro keeps track of the charge taken (and the current), 
the last time and amount of charge, and can respond to a host (serial or I2C) 
clearly stating the expected remaining battery life.
	It would be nice to hear from the satellite people.  They have to be 
real battery experts.  (You can't just go up and change a battery.)

Later,
Pherd

