Received: from client-201.240.72.78.speedy.net.pe (HELO UGEL-455A44E82D) ([201.240.72.78])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id NAA11714
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Thu, 6 May 1999 22:54:04 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from gmail.com (alt1.gmail-smtp-in.l.google.com [72.14.215.114])
        by UGEL-455A44E82D (Postfix) with ESMTP id 351GJYKFZX
        for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Thu, 6 May 1999 17:55:42 +0500
From: "Oliver" <durham.emmettpdpl4@gmail.com>
To: <handyboard@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Measurements and stok recommendations from top analysts     Get the freshest
Date: Thu, 6 May 1999 17:55:42 +0500
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: fKm6oMWkzxbiKEjXubOEH2tBHax1CJTLQCOY
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Market status measurements and booming tendencies Complete stok research information and recommendations More earning opportunities with expert stok analysis 

Just take a look: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!


Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:
• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.


CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split

China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.

ABOUT THE COMPANY

China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.


Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.
Premium stok recommendation services that allow earning more Save nerves and funds with reliable stok recommendations Top factors causing stok booming and revenue increase 









stok recommendations and managing solutions 



 He who has once burnt his mouth always blows his soup To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity. He is always right who suspects that he makes mistakes The squeaky wheel gets the grease. Under the thorn grow the roses  A bad excuse is better than none. The last straw breaks the camel's back. Never eat an oyster unless there is an R in the month Sticks and stones may break my bones but names will never hurt me Better to remain silent and appear a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt  Haste makes waste. Cat foot soft but he ah scratch bad. If Fortune calls, offer him a seat  We do not care of what we have, but we cry when it is lost Poor men seek meat for their stomach; rich men stomach for their meat The Ass Loaded With Gold Still Eats Thistles Cow deh a pasture he nah remember seh dog and butcher deh till he see am. Ill-gotten gains never prosper A calm sea does not make a skilled sailor. The longest day must have an end Great groups from little icons grow. Time waits for nobody Hatred stirs up dissension, but love covers over all wrongs He who gathers crops in summer is a wise son, but he who sleeps during harvest is a disgraceful son  He Is Rich Enough That Wants Nothing If you wish to be loved, love Teachers open the door, but you must enter by yourself Admiration is the daughter of ignorance  A penny always turns up. After a storm comes a calm. If anything can go wrong, it will People who think the world revolves around them have no sense of direction 

