Received: from exchange.cs.cornell.edu (exchange.cs.cornell.edu [128.84.97.8])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.3/8.11.3/M-3.10) with ESMTP id g8JF6nh16450
	for <egs@popsrv.cs.cornell.edu>; Thu, 19 Sep 2002 11:06:49 -0400 (EDT)
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="utf-8"
Subject: 615 PAPER 13
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.5762.3
Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 11:06:49 -0400
Message-ID: <706871B20764CD449DB0E8E3D81C4D4302CEE607@opus.cs.cornell.edu>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
Thread-Topic: 615 PAPER 13
Thread-Index: AcJf7i28wcnqZsjwSu+ZzqHZgPE/hw==
From: "Hongzhou Liu" <liuhz@CS.Cornell.EDU>
To: "Emin Gun Sirer" <egs@CS.Cornell.EDU>
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from base64 to 8bit by sundial.cs.cornell.edu id g8JF6nh16450

Conserving Transmission Power in Wireless Ad Hoc Networks
  This paper introduces PARO, a power-aware routing optimization that helps to minimize
the transmission power needed to foward packets between wireless devices in ad hoc 
networkss. Due to its power conserving point-to-point on-demand design, PARO is capable
of outperforming the traditional broadcast-based routing protocols(e.g., MANET routing
protocols). The simulation result reveals an important fact that compared to the power
consumed by the data and control packets transmitted before convergence of optimal
routes, the consumption of later data transmission is less significant, thus suggests
an important design principle for future power-aware routing protocols that is the 
avoidance of "blind" (e.g., broadcast) transmission at high power.
  The core algorithm of PARO consists of three parts: overhearing, redirecting and
route-maintenance. The overhearing algorithm estimates the minimum power needed to send
packets to the overheard node. The estimated value is stored and is used by the 
redirecting algorithm to decide if the adding of the overhearing node to the route will
decrease the overall power consumption. If this is the case, the overhearing node 
becomes a potential "redirector" and sends a route-redirect message to the communicating
nodes involved. PARO uses a clever scheme here to suppress duplicate route-redirect 
packets, that is priority route-redirector packets. Upon the reveival of this message, 
the original route will redirect itself
to go through the overhearing node, thus a new route with less overall power consumption
is achieved. However, this core algorithm only applies to static netwokrs. To make it
suitable to mobile nodes, this paper suggests some enhencements to the core algorithm, 
such as: sending explicit signaling packets, using increasing transmission range to 
capture mobile nodes, and so on. However some details are missing here, like how to 
choose the value of route-timeout.  Besides, the redirecting algorithm for mobile 
situation is describled in a informal way. I guess the authors have not come up with a 
complete PARO solution for mobile networks at that time, thus they can only evaluate 
and the performance of the protocol in static networks. No result about power efficiency
in mobile networks is given in the paper. Thus, there is still some distance to make 
PARO applicable to networks with high mobility.
  PARO is not a "complete" routing protocol, because it's only applicable to the 
situation where all nodes are located within the maximum transmission range of each 
other. Thus given a sparsely populated network, PARO must be combined with some other
traditional routing protocols to find a complete route with low power consumption.
  When designin PARO, the authors take power efficiency as the only metrics to make a
good routing protocol, ignoring all the other important metrics like end-to-end 
throughput and delay. It's critical to take these metrcs into account and make some
trade-off between them. Also it's very important to use the power capacity of each node
fairly to prevent overloading some nodes and exhausting them, but this paper doesn't say
any things about it.

