Received: from zinger.cs.cornell.edu (zinger.cs.cornell.edu [128.84.96.55])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.3/8.11.3/M-3.10) with ESMTP id g8OFvRh01848
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 24 Sep 2002 11:57:28 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from localhost (ashieh@localhost)
	by zinger.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.3/8.11.3/C-3.2) with ESMTP id g8OFvRC24704
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 24 Sep 2002 11:57:27 -0400 (EDT)
Date: Tue, 24 Sep 2002 11:57:27 -0400 (EDT)
From: Alan Shieh <ashieh@CS.Cornell.EDU>
To: <egs@CS.Cornell.EDU>
Subject: 615 PAPER 19
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.4.33.0209241156490.24689-100000@zinger.cs.cornell.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

The central idea behind CEDAR is the use of a "core" dominating set of
nodes to store and propagate routing information.  Conceivably, such a
set would be smaller and have lower degree than the original graph.
A distributed, constant time algorithm is provided for generating an
the core, which is used to construct a connected overlay network.
Since the degree of this overlay is (supposedly) low, broadcasts may
be implemented using unicast without much additional cost. Since the
overlay has smaller diameter and fewer nodes, on-demand route discovery
has lower cost.

Routing information is propagated through the core. Since every node
is at most one hop from some core node, each node always has access to
some routing information. CEDAR assumes that the probability of
bandwidth being available through a link for some path drops as the
distance from the link to the endpoints increases; therefore, routing
information is propagated a number of hops proportional to the
bandwidth of a link.

CEDAR also employs asymetric propagation of bandwidth updates in which
bandwidth decreases are propagated much faster than increases; this
approach reduces bandwidth usage from some outdated information,
provides hysteresis against instability, and also conservatively helps
QoS reservation (by quickly propagating reservations across the
network).

* Shortcomings
- The paper claims that a RTS/CTS caching scheme at the MAC layer can
prevent very many extraneous unicasts during core broadcast (at most
one per node, "when nearby nodes are a distance 3 apart"). However,
the RTS/CTS exchange only protects against the hidden/exposed node
problem for the initiator and receiver; the intermediate node has not
protected its own airspace.

- There were many problems with the evaluation. Very few datapoints
were provided. There is no way to tell how the performance ratio
between optimal routing and CEDAR scales with network diameter (in
fact, the tested diameters are tiny). It was not clear what the
sources of routing failures were in the absence of ito/dto waves. Does
this mean that QoS reservations were not propagated as quickly? Also,
the authors did not explain where all the lost packets went in the
recovery process; the numbers in the column don't add up. Did they get
misrouted and ignored? They should have compared the recovery of CEDAR
with that of DSR, since both use source routing and support some sort
of full route-aware rerouting.

* Extensions
- All state info is stored in the dominators, which means that the
non-dominating nodes have unutilized space. Moreover, dominators are,
by nature, hotspots in the network. Perhaps these facts can be used to
implement dominator load balancing.
- Quantify more precisely the loss due to greedy routing to the
furthest possible core node.
- The TTL calculation and propagation strategy assumes uniform traffic
patterns within a network. The loss of efficiency in the presence of
hotspots should be analyzed. Also, an asymetric propagation technique maybe
useful for providing back pressure to portions of the network that are
hogging bandwidth (for instance, on one particular side of a link)


