Received: from exchange.cs.cornell.edu (exchange.cs.cornell.edu [128.84.97.8])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.3/8.11.3/M-3.10) with ESMTP id gACJkJQ16270
	for <egs@popsrv.cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 12 Nov 2002 14:46:19 -0500 (EST)
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.6249.0
Subject: 615paper63
Date: Tue, 12 Nov 2002 14:46:18 -0500
Message-ID: <47BCBC2A65D1D5478176F5615EA7976D11AFA4@opus.cs.cornell.edu>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
Thread-Topic: 615paper63
Thread-Index: AcKKhCtgUj/rKuQjSr+vmV8jujzcYA==
From: "Vivek Vishnumurthy" <vivi@CS.Cornell.EDU>
To: "Gun Sirer" <GunSirer@CS.Cornell.EDU>
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by sundial.cs.cornell.edu id gACJkJQ16270

The first paper among today's set (Kleinberg) presents the 
small-world model, and how one can build a network that 
matches the small-world model (the Watts-Strogatz Model), 
in that the distance between any two nodes in the network, 
on the average is small (logarithmic in the number of 
nodes). The paper also gives the necessary and sufficient 
condition for the distance (on average) as found by a 
purely distributed algorithm in practice to be small.

The second paper (Theodore Hong) shows how a regular graph 
(with high clustering) and high path lengths can be 
transformed with very few changes, into a graph that fits 
the small-world model, and also retains the high 
clustering. It then shows that performance of P2P systems 
Freenet and Gnutella match the small-world model. It 
evaluates both in terms of average path-length during 
normal operation, failure (random) and attacks (malicious). 
Both Freenet and Gnutella perform well under normal 
operation (good hop counts). Freenet is robust under random 
failures, because of the widely varying number of links of 
different nodes. But its performance degrades rapidly for 
this very reason, under targeted attacks, where the most 
highly connected nodes are removed from the system. This 
paper finds that Gnutella resists both random failures and 
targeted attacks reasonably well, but it pays in terms of 
the total number of messages sent per query. (That Gnutella 
resists targeted attacks is contradicted by the next paper)

The third paper (Saroiu...) performs a measurement study of 
Napster and Gnutella. It finds that the two systems are 
widely heterogeneous, and conventional P2P systems that 
assume uniform capacities of all nodes and delegate 
responsibilities uniformly have to be adapted to such 
systems. It also finds that a substantial percentage of the 
peers misreport their capacities (since there is an 
incentive to lie). Thus it concludes that the system should 
be built in such a way that (i) capacities (bandwidths, 
etc.) are measured directly, rather than having to rely on 
a peer to report its capacity itself, OR (ii) create an 
incentive to be truthful, by rewarding peers that 
contribute to the functioning of the network. It finds that 
Gnutella is highly susceptible to targeted attacks.

These papers suggest that unstructured P2P systems could 
perform well under normal modes of operation, but face one 
common problem: drastic performance degradation under 
targeted attacks. A more structured P2P system (eg: a 
Centralized system) could resist such an attack by 
preferentially protecting more important nodes against 
attacks.

