Received: from unicorn (unicorn.acs.ttu.edu [129.118.2.22]) by zingg.weru.ksu.edu (8.6.9/8.5) with SMTP id MAA01951; Tue, 20 Dec 1994 12:37:08 -0600
Received: from  (localhost) by unicorn (5.0/SMI-4.1)
	id AA29377; Tue, 20 Dec 1994 12:32:55 -0600
Date: Tue, 20 Dec 1994 12:32:55 -0600
Errors-To: tzobeck@lubbock.ars.ag.gov
Message-Id: <a03cramerman3541821260>
Errors-To: tzobeck@lubbock.ars.ag.gov
Reply-To: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Originator: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Sender: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Precedence: bulk
From: a03cramerman@attmail.com (Carroll R Amerman)
To: Multiple recipients of list <wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu>
Subject: NEW SUBSCRIBER
X-Listprocessor-Version: 6.0c -- ListProcessor by Anastasios Kotsikonas
Content-Length: 3783
X-Lines: 74
Status: RO

Hello to the Wind_Erosion Conference.

My name is Dick Amerman.  Those of us foolish enough to go by
middle names usually have to explain -- you may also see my name
as C. Richard and Carroll R.

I am a member of the Agricultural Research Service National
Program Staff, stationed in Beltsville, MD.  Although I am a
hydrologist by training and research experience, I have the task of
keeping track of the Agency's erosion program - wind and water.
Therefore, I am interested in anything having to do with erosion -
state of the art knowledge, research programs anywhere (who, where,
what, etc.), research progress, the customers we serve and their views
of their problems, the politics of erosion, social impacts, etc. etc.   I
work with colleagues at Cooperative State Research, Education, and
Extension Service (CSREES) and am interested in State Agricultural
Experiment Station (AES) work on erosion as well as ARS.
Incidentally did anybody ask Wayne Murphey to join the
Conference?  Berlie Schmidt? Maury Horton?  -- I'm at home on
leave for the holidays and don't have access to the original invitation
list.

For the past eight years or so, ARS has been focusing closely on
developing a process-based replacement for the Wind Erosion
Equation that we are calling WEPS - Wind Erosion Prediction
System.  Larry Hagen at Manhatten is the contact on it.  We have
also developed RWEQ - Revised Wind Erosion Equation that is in
preliminary testing with the Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS) now.  Bill Fryrear at Big Spring is the contact on that one.

A first version of WEPS should be available for NRCS initial testing
this coming fall.

We realize that WEPS and RWEQ will continue to consume
considerable time and other resources in the ARS wind erosion
research program.  However, we hope to be able to return some
resources to other wind erosion research besides prediction
technology development.  To that end we are beginning discussion
about what the wind erosion priorities are and how we ought to shape
the ARS program for the future.

I will welcome anyone's thoughts regarding wind erosion research
topics and their ideas of priorities.  I will remind you that all the
federal agencies, ARS, CSREES, and NRCS included, will in 1997
have to conform to the Government Performance and Results Act
under which agency performance will be judged on "outcomes" and
customer satisfaction.  The way it looks now, outcomes will largely
be judged from their societal effects.  Technical excellence is a
prerequisite to good societal effects, but such technology must be
RELEVANT to society's needs and in USEABLE FORM in order
that it may be picked up, used, and have that desirable impact.  I
think outcomes from the new prediction technology will serve us all
well for a few years.  We can afford to get into some basic and
applied research, but need to have a strategy for assuring that results
from such research get put into forms that result in significant
outcomes several years down the road.

I hope that SAES scientists and others will join in discussion of the
ARS wind erosion program.  ARS should know what SAES and
others are doing and planning to do in order to avoid undue overlap.
Also, maybe we can leveradge each other's work - there are mighty
few people working in wind erosion research, and we need to make
the best use of all the resources collectively available to us -- and do
it in such a way that contributions to outcomes are attributable.


C. R. Amerman         ph. 301/504-6441
USDA-ARS-NPS          Fax 301/504-5467
Rm 233, Bldg 005, BARC-West   FTS2000Mail !a03cramerman
Beltsville, MD 20705      Internet !a03cramerman@attmail.com
                                                         or
ramerman@asrr.arsusda.gov
Hello to the Win


