Received: from ADUC (unknown [125.234.251.178]) by psy1.psych.arizona.edu (8.12.10/8.12.4)
	with ESMTP id iAAFYtFJ006769 for <DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>; Sun, 14 Nov 2004 06:18:17 -0700
Received: from gmail.com (gsmtp163.google.com [64.233.163.27])
        by ADUC (Postfix) with ESMTP id RPGV7BY9Q2
        for <DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>; Sun, 14 Nov 2004 13:19:49 -0700
From: "Ramona" <darinakrishtofoequal@gmail.com>
To: <DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>
Subject: stok recommendations and managing solutions   Just out
Date: Sun, 14 Nov 2004 13:19:49 -0700
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: koJfd47YHEuAhq4qxCSpt7rREp8UK7lGo5PH
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

More earning opportunities with expert stok analysis Climbing parameters of stok booming and market growth Top-performing stoks recommended by investment experts 
Just take a look: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!


Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:
• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.
CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split
China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY

China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.
Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.

Beneficial cooperation based on expert stok advice Financial analysis and stok recommendation on stoks taking off 






Radar for helping you make stok market decisions Market research and market pulse analysis from top experts 





 A crowd is not company.  Birds of a feather flock together. Doubt is the beginning of wisdom. The price of liberty is eternal vigilance Old fish and young flesh feed men best You cannot make bricks without straw  There's no fool like an old fool. Be just before you are generous Always yield to temptation, because it may not pass your way again.  Revenge is sweet He who makes no mistakes, makes nothing Motivation is what gets you started habit is what keeps you going  When two big bottle deh ah table lil one nah business deh. He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts. Yuh can't chew bone with gum. Distance lends enchantment to the view Good and quickly seldom meet  Finders keepers, losers weepers There is a time to speak and a time to be silent You cannot lose what you never had The Fairest Rose at Last is Withered Don't cross your bridges before you come to them. Wise men think alike. as delicate as a baby's eye lashes He who comes with a story to you will bring two away from you The price of liberty is eternal vigilance A bad penny always turns up. Fools build houses, and wise men live in them When yuh dead yuh nah sabee, and when yuh sabee yuh dead. A Man of Words and Not of Deeds is Like a Garden Full of Weeds. The end justifies the means A golden key opens all doors.  

