Received: from mailhost.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de (nz41.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de [129.13.197.5])
	by interval.usl.edu (8.9.1/8.9.1/ucs-mx-host_1.2) with ESMTP id DAA26198
	for <reliable_computing@interval.usl.edu>; Thu, 20 May 1999 03:09:01 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from nz50.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de (ne03@nz50.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de [129.13.98.9])
	by mailhost.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de with smtp (Exim 2.12 #1)
	id 10kNsO-0003AO-00; Thu, 20 May 1999 10:08:24 +0200
Received: by nz50.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de
	(1.38.193.4/16.2) id AA19155; Thu, 20 May 1999 10:08:24 +0200
Subject: special issue of Applied Numerical Mathematics
To: reliable_computing@interval.usl.edu
Date: Thu, 20 May 1999 10:08:23 +0200 (CES)
From: weiss@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de (Ruediger Weiss)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Message-Id: <E10kNsO-0003AO-00@mailhost.rz.uni-karlsruhe.de>
Sender: owner-reliable_computing@interval.usl.edu
Precedence: bulk

Dear Colleagues,

May I tend your attention to the new special issue on iterative methods 
and preconditioners of Applied Numerical Mathematics, Volume 30, Issue 2-3,
June 1999. I add the preface and the table of contents.

Yours sincerely,

Ruediger Weiss


-- 
Dr. Ruediger Weiss
Rechenzentrum
Universitaet Karlsruhe
76128 Karlsruhe
Germany
Tel: +49 721 608 4034
Fax: +49 721 32550
Mail: weiss@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de



                       PREFACE

At the 15th IMACS World Congress on Scientific Computation, Modelling
and Applied Mathematics in Berlin, on August 24 - 29, 1997, the session
``Iterative Methods and Preconditioners'' was organized by the guest
editors of this special issue.  In this session 15 talks were given and
short papers were published in the proceedings edited by Achim Sydow. 
The session established an overview of the state of the art of iterative 
solvers. We are grateful to the participants, and especially to the speakers
who made this meeting a success. 

In order to achieve a greater dissemination of the presented results
we  edit extended versions of the proceedings papers in this special
issue of Applied Numerical Mathematics.  We already produced a special 
issue as guest editors with the extended articles of our session on iterative
methods at the 14th IMACS World Congress in 1994 in Atlanta.
We would like to thank Robert Vichnevetsky and Josef E. Flaherty 
for offering this opportunity again and for the possibility to
continue this line. 

This Special Issue on Iterative Methods and Preconditioners provides an
overview of the state of the art.  We invited also scientists that could
not participate in the IMACS World Congress to contribute to this special
issue in order to present a comprehensive collection.  On the other side, 
some of the invited speakers of our session at the  IMACS World Congress 
did not provide us with an extended paper because their results are published
elsewhere.

The papers deal with iterative solvers for linear systems, preconditioners
for linear solvers, iterative eigenvalue solvers and iterative solvers for
nonlinear systems. The articles are grouped according to this sequence. The 
articles cover many aspects from the introduction of new methods to elaborate
implementations of well-known methods on advanced computer architectures,
from the solution of single systems to the solution of systems with multiple
right-hand sides, from numerical calculations to computational algebra,
and from the ordinary floating point arithmetic to interval arithmetic.

The first part of the special issue is concerned with iterative methods 
for linear systems.  Ulrike Meier Yang and Kyle A. Gallivan generalize 
EN-like methods to block versions for the solution of linear systems with
multiple right-hand sides. Numerical experiments demonstrate that the methods
are competitive with and in many cases better than other block methods.
Boris Wagner and Ruediger Weiss analyze the possibilities to implement
Krylov subspace methods with a short recurrence.  They introduce a new
theoretical analysis for truncated generalized CG methods and derive a
minimization property in the whole spanned space.  Caroline Le Calvez and
Yousef Saad introduce new Krylov subspace methods where the usual inner
products are substituted by discrete products over polynomials.
By this proceeding the impossibility to implement Euclidean inner products
in an efficient and scalable manner on parallel computers is by-passed. 
A system of linear solvers for parallel environments with distributed memory,
the program package LINSOL, is presented by Hartmut Haefner, Willi Schoenauer 
and Ruediger Weiss. The ideas to achieve an efficient and scalable 
implementation are discussed and the concepts for flexibility, portability 
and robustness are  presented.  Svetoslav Markov investigates a Jacobi type
method for an interval matrix and an interval right-hand side. The concept of
directed interval arithmetic is given and applied to study the properties of
the proposed iterative scheme. 

The second part of this special issue covers preconditioning. The
article of Willi Schoenauer is the link to the first part. He
investigates several search directions in order to accelerate 
CG-type methods. Special emphasis is given to the construction
of new robust multilevel preconditioning techniques.
Seiji Fujino investigates the matrix product preconditioner
in comparison to incomplete LU decompositions. It is shown
that the matrix product preconditioner is more efficient, in
particular by avoiding memory bank conflicts on vector supercomputers.
Problems from Nonlinear Elasticity are solved by Jens G. Schmidt and
Gerhard Starke. They remove a few negative eigenvalues from the
system matrix by forming the Schur complement with respect to a
low-dimensional space. By applying usual hierachical and multilevel
preconditioners in combination with CG type methods they achieve a
faster convergence.  Lev A. Krukier introduces a new class of methods
that are efficient for strongly nonsymmetric matrices. These techniques
prove to be good accelerators for CG type methods when used as preconditioners.
Thomas Huckle investigates preconditioners forming incomplete inverses of
the matrix minimizing the Frobenius norm. Different adaptive techniques
for choosing the sparsity pattern are discussed with respect to the reduction
of communication time on parallel computer systems.
An practical overview paper on state-of-the-art preconditioners
is furnished by Michele Benzi, Miroslav Tuma. They consider
as well matrix decompositions as incomplete inverses and supply
many numerical tests. The focus of this very comprehensive work
is convergence and efficient implementation.

Susanne Balle and Jane Cullum present eigenvalue solvers for
very large real symmetric matrices on massively parallel
systems with distributed memory. By applying the message passing
paradigm to variants of the Lanczos process they achieve significant 
speedups and need  only small memory requirements.  Andrea Walther, 
Andreas Griewank and Andre Best state that multiple vector-Jacobian
products are cheap in the sense that the same amount of operations is 
needed as for Jacobian-vector products. The calculation of the results is done
by computational differentiation as well as by numerical approximations.
Such products are often needed for the solution of nonlinear systems,
for example for Newton's method in combination with Krylov subspace methods. 
A whole class of new nonlinear solvers is surveyed by Ruediger Weiss
and Isabella Podgajezki. The methods result from a generalization
of linear solvers to nonlinear problems. Different numerical
examples demonstrate the potential of these methods. 

We greatly appreciate the efforts of the authors who made this special 
issue possible and we would like to thank them all sincerely.

Karlsruhe                              R. Weiss and W. Schoenauer





               CONTENTS

Ulrike Meier Yang, Kyle A. Gallivan
A New Family of Block Methods
 
Boris Wagner, Ruediger Weiss
Minimization Properties and Short Recurrences
 
Caroline Le Calvez, Yousef Saad
Modified Krylov Acceleration for Parallel Environments
 
Hartmut Haefner, Willi Schoenauer, Ruediger Weiss
The Program Package LINSOL - Basic Concepts and Realization
 
Svetoslav Markov
An Iterative Method for Algebraic Solution to Interval Equations
 
Willi Schoenauer
Experiments with Search Directions for a Generalized CG Method
 
Seiji Fujino
Estimation of Conflict-Free Matrix Product Preconditioner
on Vector Supercomputers
 
Jens G. Schmidt, Gerhard Starke
Coarse Space Orthogonalization for Indefinite Linear Systems
of Equations Arising in Geometrically Nonlinear Elasticity
 
Lev A. Krukier
Convergence Acceleration of Triangular Iterative Methods based
on the Skew-Symmetric Part of the Matrix
 
Thomas Huckle
Approximate Sparsity Patterns for the Inverse of a Matrix and 
Preconditioning
 
Michele Benzi, Miroslav Tuma
A Comparative Study of Sparse Approximate Inverse Preconditioners
 
Susanne Balle, Jane Cullum
A Parallel Algorithm for Computing Eigenvalues of Very Large
Real Symmetric Matrices on Message Passing Architectures
 
Andrea Walther, Andreas Griewank, Andre Best
Multiple Vector-Jacobian Products are Cheap
 
Ruediger Weiss, Isabella Podgajezki
Overview on New Solvers for Nonlinear Systems

