Received: from ATHLON64 (abss236.neoplus.adsl.tpnet.pl [83.8.138.236])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id PAA12566
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Fri, 12 Mar 1999 23:24:16 -0500 (EST)
Received: from gmail.com (alt2.gmail-smtp-in.l.google.com [64.233.163.27])
        by ATHLON64 (Postfix) with ESMTP id HJ2OG2FOXY
        for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Sat, 13 Mar 1999 01:25:42 -0100
From: "Santiago" <crowley.winnifred0la9@gmail.com>
To: <handyboard@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Investment information that helps earning on the stok market  Never-seen
Date: Sat, 13 Mar 1999 01:25:42 -0100
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: 4zLa6hO3WU13jgpBnakvj6UQNIYmISowxeZG
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Insider stok trading information with tremendous value Complete stok research information and recommendations stok recommendations on short-term trading Expert stok analysis and market booming tendencies disclosed 

Come on in here: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!

Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:

• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.


CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split
China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY

China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.
Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.

Top factors causing stok booming and revenue increase Investment time frames, stok recommendations and highlights Advanced stok analysis and profit-boosting techniques 








stok analysis tools and tips meant to increase long-term profits Premium stok recommendation services that allow earning more 



 United we stand, divided we fall  Cat foot soft but he ah scratch bad. Great minds think alike Yuh can't suck cane and blow whistle. If yuh plant plantain yuh can't reap cassava. Go to heaven for the climate and hell for the company  To have is to hold and to hold is to have Faint heart never won fair lady Promises are like babies Easy to make, hard to deliver Confession is good for the soul He who works his land will have abundant food, but the one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty In for a penny, in for a pound. Lots of people confuse bad management with destiny A wonder lasts but nine days. Youth nah ah weary but he ah fall down. He who guards his lips guards his life, but he who speaks rashly will come to ruin Give Neither Counsel Nor Salt till You Are Asked For It Discretion is the better part of valour Children should be seen and not heard Better to be safe than.. punch a 5th grader. Fish and cast-net nah friend. Money is the root of all evil  The old believe everything, the middle aged suspect everything, the young know everything When the wine is in, the wit is out  You never know what you can do until you try  A man's home is his castle. A man walks, God places the feet.  Anybody can make history Only a great man can write it  Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned A man is at his tallest when he stoops to help a child. Many things are lost for want of asking  A man that breaks his word bids other be false to him. 

