Received: from netscape.net (unknown [59.1.59.17])
	by life.ai.mit.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3/AI2.13/ai.master.life:2.21)
	with ESMTP id LAA09399; Sun, 22 Apr 2001 11:26:01 -0400 (EDT)
Message-ID: <F418AA0D.AB329C9@netscape.net>
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2001 05:06:56 -0700
Reply-To: "Peter Steven" <maxwelubanko01acolke@netscape.net>
From: "Peter Steven" <maxwelubanko01acolke@netscape.net>
User-Agent: Mozilla 4.78 [en] (Win98; U)
MIME-Version: 1.0
To: "Dear   friend" <susie@life.ai.mit.edu>
Subject: YOUR URGENT FUND TRANSFER ASSISTANT IS NEEDED PLEASE
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="us-ascii"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Dear Friend, 

With warm heart I offer my friendship, and my greetings, and I hope this
letter meets you in good time. It will be surprising for you to receive this
proposal from me since you do not know me personally.
However, I am sincerely seeking your confidence in this transaction, which
I propose with my free mind and as a person of integrity.

My name is Peter  Steven the first son of  Dr Steven Ubanko a  farmer from
Zimbabwe, murdered in the land dispute. As led by my instinct
, I decided to contact you through LETTER as it is the only means I can
contact anybody since I am cutting off ties with Zimbabwe for security and
safety reasons.  However, I apologize if this is not acceptable to you.   

The purpose of this letter is to seek your most needed assistance in a
business venture. Due to the land and political problems in Zimbabwe, as a
result of President Robert Mugabe's introduction of new Land Act Reform
wholly affecting the rich white farmers and the few  rich black farmers, and
his desire to hold on to power for life, my father foresaw the danger that
is coming to Zimbabwe. Before he was murdered, he withdrew all of our
business foreign accounts in dollars to Johannesburg, South Africa to
deposit the sum of US$14 millions(Fourteen  million,  US dollars), in a
private security company.
 This money was deposited with this Private Security Company for safety and
security reasons, and was to be used for the purchase of land, new machines
and chemicals establishment of new farms in Botswana.

I am currently staying in The Netherlands where I am seeking political
asylum. In fact my decision to come here to seek asylum, is because the
financial company from South Africa, has a branch here, and they have moved
the deposited fund from their office in Johannesburg to Netherland

Since the law of The Netherlands prohibits a refugee (asylum seeker) to
open any bank account or to be involved in any financial transaction, 
this is why  I am seeking your help as a reliable partner, If you accept to
assist me, we shall negotiate your percentage of the total sum of the fund
as my partner.

All I want you to do for me, is to assist with arrangements to claim the
deposit from the financial institution, from their office here in 
The Netherlands, as it has now been transferred from Johannesburg, South
Africa to their branch here. 
The company will be legally informed of you representing me.Please, I want
you to  maintain the absolute secrecy for the purpose  of this transaction.
 I look forward to your reply and co-operation, and I  thank you in advance
as I anticipate your co-operation, 
I will like if you  reply with my email address which is
petersteven5@netscape.net

Thanks you sir,
Peter Steven Ubanko


