Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id UAA25804;
	Sun, 24 Jun 2001 20:29:20 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200106250029.UAA25804@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Subject: Bike Diary #1
Date: Sat, 23 Jun 2001 16:35 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 5


The starting point for this trip, my apartment on Highland Avenue in
Somerville, is at latitude 42 degrees 23 minutes 16 seconds north,
longitude 71 degrees 6 minutes 3 seconds west.  You'll have to wait
and see to find out the coordinates of the ending point.

Day 1
Date: Saturday, June 23, 2001
Distance: 90 miles
Moving average speed: 12.8 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Arrived at 4:00 PM
Overnight in Erving State Forest near Erving, Massachusetts
latitude 42 degrees 37 minutes 11 seconds north
longitude 72 degrees 22 minutes 9 seconds west

"An inauspicious beginning"

I think it was Kate Courteau who used the expression quoted above in
reference to the weather as a small group of friends gathered in front
of my apartment this morning to give me a sendoff on my trip.  My
departure had been postponed so many times already that I was pretty
determined to get going for real this morning.  "Damn the forecast,
full speed ahead," or something similar.

The ride itself went pretty smoothly.  We left about on time, and some
folks even escorted me out of town.  Jono, in his determination to get
the perfect departure photo despite the dead battery in his camera, even
stuck it out beyond Concord (the others, Max & Co., were en route to
Hartford, Conneticut, and split off in Belmont).  I really appreciate the
escorts; a little moral support at the beginning of a great and daunting
enterprise such as this makes a big difference.

The night before depating I weighed myself and the bicycle.  It seems
like we're both getting a little heavy; I was 180 pounds and the loaded
bicycle 104 (34 pounds unloaded).  The weight of the load seemed
awfully high to me, as my recollection from previous tours was that it
should be about 45 pounds, not 70.  I have a few frivolities with me
this time that are adding weight to the load (such as the handheld PC
that I am writing the on), but the certainly don't add up to 25 pounds.
Nonetheless, repeated careful measurements always came up with the
same result.

At any rate, the weight of the load was the major factor in setting the
pace for today, it forced me to slow to  creep (8-9 mph) going uphill,
of which there was plenty on today's ride.  Nonetheless, I managed a
respectable overall moving average speed, 12.8 mph shown in the table
above.  When you're riding a 100 pound machine, you're pround of 12
mph and not ashamed of 10.

I went through a number of old industrial towns, notably Gardner, Athol
and Orange (all in Massachuetts, of course) with beautiful old water
powered brick factories left over rom the days when we actually built
things in this country.  Most of these towns had made some efforts at
preservation (a la Lowell).

When I arrived at Erving State Forest in the midafternoon (my final
destination for the day and where I sit now as I am writing this), Kate's
prophecy of bad weather started to violently come true.  I barely had time
to pitch my tent and get my gear inside before a Wagnerian storm broke
and sheets of water started pouring from the sky.  Unfortunately, the
campsite I was assigned was not well designed: it was built on a slope
insead of the preferred way of having a peak (on which you pitch the
tent) surrounded by lower ground.  This means that the water which
runs off the tent on the uphill side the runs under it and soaks through
the floor.

I actually think the guys here were trying to be nice to me by giving me
this since it is the closest to the water supply and the head, but in reality
they did me a bit of a disservice.  I was forced to crouch in my tent
cursing while water seeped through the floor and everything started
getting damp.

Once the rains did finally stop; everything was a sea of mud because
instead of grass the campsite has bare dirt.

Oh well, it will all dry out again in another day or two.

Day 2
Date: Sunday, June 24, 2001
Distance: 93 miles
Moving average speed: 11.4 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Arrived at 6:00 PM
Overnight in Austerlitz, NY
latitude 42 degrees 17 minutes 8 seconds north
longitude 73 degrees 29 minutes 57 seconds west

The moving average speed for today tells it all: I crossed the Berkshires at
a snail's pace.  It is my opinion that the Berkshires are by far more difficult
to cross than the average Rocky Mountain pass.  As I was struggling up one
of the steeper grades on route 20 west of Huntington, MA that it would be
very easy to prove that opinion is a fact if I had one of those fancy bicycle
computers that include an altimeter and use it to tell how far you've climbed.

I decided to cross the Connecticut River on the bike path that connects
Belchertown to Northampton, the first time in all the times that I have bicycled
across Massachusetts that I have tried this path. This meant starting the day on
nearly a due south trajectory, riding from Erving to Amherst, where I stopped
for a patry and coffee.  At the coffee shop, I met Frank Tripoli, who lives in
Ware and bicycles the path from Belchertown to Northampton and return for
exercise.  It was a lucky chance; he gave me good directions to the path, and
when I caught up to him on it, we had a long conversation.  He seems to have
a habit of encountering cross-country adventurers on that bike path, the last one
was a guy walking his dog from San Diego to Boston.  Frank has a younger
brother, Steve, who works as a reporter for WBUR, one of the NPR affiliates in
Boston.  I've heard that voice thousands of times.

Tonight I'm staying at my aunt's house in Austerlitz.  It's a welcome chance to
lay out all my soaked gear to dry and sleep in a warm bed.

