Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id WAA11078;
	Wed, 27 Jun 2001 22:04:23 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200106280204.WAA11078@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Subject: Bike Diary #2
Date: Mon, 25 Jun 2001 19:50 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 6

Day 3
Date: Monday June 25, 2001
Distance: 108 miles
Moving average speed: 12.6 mph
Left at 9:30 AM
Arrived at 7:00 PM
Overnight in Glimmerglass State Park near Cooperstown, NY
latitude 42 d 47 m 8 s N
longitude 74 d 51 m 50 s W
Cumulative distance: 291 miles

After a very late start, I discovered that the weather gods had changed their
minds about my project and decided to provide me with near-perfect cycling
conditions.  So in spite of the late start and a moderately sore knee I decided
to make hay while the sun was shining instead of taking a shorter day as I
had originally planned.

The day went pretty smoothly.  I took my first bite out of the Catskills today
and with the exception of one heart-breaking grade 87 miles into today's
ride, they have proven to be alot easier than the Berkshires were (compare
today's average speed with yesterday's to see the effect).  Not much to
report, today was mostly about grinding out the miles.

One interesting quirk: when I arrived at Glimmerglass State Park, there was
a note in the window of the ranger's office listing the campsites that were
not reserved for the night and instructing guests to move in and expect a
visit from the ranger later in the evening to collect the camping fee.  So I
did and he did, but an hour later I had a second visit from the same
ranger who came to refund my $15.75 camping fee.  Apparently his
supervisor "has a lot of respect for" crazy guys like me who try to bicycle
across the country and figures we deserve a free night of camping for our
efforts.

Day 4
Date: Tuesday June 26, 2001
Distance: 74 miles
Moving average speed: 12.2 mph
Left at 8:30 AM
Arrived at 7:00 PM
Overnight in Chittenango Falls State Park southeast of Syracuse, NY
latitude 42 d 58 m 47 s N
longitude 75 d 50 m 42 s W
Cumulative distance: 365 miles

It was a short distance today because I spent most of the morning in the
National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, NY.  That is definitely worth
a visit, even if you are not a hardcore baseball fan (and I am not).

Then I turned west, which is to say perpendicular to the direction of the
Catskills (or parallel to their gradient, if you prefer).  This meant that instead
of following valleys between hills, I was forced to confront them head on
and the day turned into and endless series of long tedious ascents followed
by breathtaking descents with a small town in the valley.  The continuous up
and down made it impossible to make any time.

As I was creeping up one of the long ascents, I was reminded of one of the
basic principles of railroad engineering.  When building a line between points
A and B, one should find the highest point between the two and then make
a gradual ascent to that point and a gradual descent from it to minimize the
cost of operating the railraod.  Any deviation from this ideal is referred to as
"redundant grade".  On a bicycle, screaming downhill at 30 mph is exciting
but very wasteful since the energy you put into climbing the hill is squandered
in wind resistance.  The energy lost to wind resistance per unit distance
(i.e. the force) grows as the velocity squared; this means you won't get nearly
as much distance for your hard-earned energy on a rapid descent as you will
on a gradual one.

Crossing the Catskills was all about redundant grade.  No railroad engineer in
his right mind would try to build a line along US 20 in New York State.  In fact,
they didn't, the railroad and the Erie Canal before it were built a good deal
north of US 20.

After sweating up a few redundant grades I stopped in at the Red Door Restaurant
in West Winfield.  There a few friendly locals gave me dire warnings about the
"Pompey Hills" coming up on route 20.  "They put that road in back in '70, and
they didn't make any unnecessary cuts."  Since there was agreement among three
locals about the difficulty of crossing the "Pompey Hills", and since they were dire
enough to rate not only local recognition but their own special name, I decided that
I would get plenty of exercise on my way to Seattle even if I routed myself
around the "Pompey Hills".  Therefore I departed route 20 in Cazenovia, NY, my plan
being to take refuge from the hills along the southern shore of Oneida Lake and north
of Syracuse and the join the railroad and the canal west of Syracuse.  That also
put a very convenient state park in my way for an overnight, which is where I
am as I am writing this.

I did run into another long-distance cyclist on route 20 today.  He was
headed east on his way from Sioux Falls, SD to Bennington, VT.  He was
the sort who eschews (or perhas hasn't heard of) national cycling
organizations and expensive equipment.  He was riding a middling-quality
mountain bike, wearing a painter's cap and baggy shorts, and had made
it from Erie, PA to Syracuse, NY in four days (pretty darn good time).  He just
got on a bike with a AAA map and went.  He did mention that he had
passed a westbound couple doing a perimeter tour of the US in Erie who
were hoping to make Washington State by August 31.  I'm hoping to get
there by August 15, and there's a good chance that they are followng the
same Northern Tier route as I, so if we all stick to our schedules I should
overtake them.  They're about 8-9 days ahead of me now, so I probably
won't close the gap until we get out west somewhere.

Day 5
Date: Wednesday June 27,, 2001
Distance: 108 miles
Moving average speed: 13.3 mph
Left at 7:45 AM
Arrived at 7:00 PM
Overnight in motel in Rochester, NY
latitude 43 d 6 m 41 s N
longitude 77d 32 m 55 s W

Today I finally passed through the difficult terrain of the Catskills and came
into the promised land: the Erie Canal and level ground.  I left Chittenango
Falls this morning still planning to follow Madison County route 3 to state
road 31 and follow that along the southern shore of Oneida Lake and north
of Syracuse.  Imagine my surprise when only a couple of miles north of
Chittenango I crossed what was unmistakably a canal with a crushed stone
towpath headed west.  The sign said "Old Erie Canal State Park and
Trailway".

As it turns out, that word "Old" is packed full of meaning.  What
the sign should have said was something like "original Erie Canal, abandoned
shortly after the turn of the twentieth century in favor of a rebuilt canal to
the north that goes through Oneida Lake."  However, the sign said nothing
of the sort, and so I assumed I had hit the towpath that the Adventure
Cycling Northern Tier route takes west of Palmyra, NY.  Despite the fact
that the towpath was unpaved (dry crushed stone is not alont worse than
asphalt when you're riding on 700 X 35C tires), I could not resist the
temptation of a level canal grade.  I was hoping that it would take me 
right through Syracuse along a level grade all the way to Rochester.
Instead, it ended abruptly after ten miles just outside of Syracuse.

It turns out that the path of the old Erie Canal through Syracuse was long
ago filled in and paved over to make streets with suggestive names such
as "Erie Boulevard".  To the untrained eye, there really isn't much of a trace
of the canal left in Syracuse.  However, I decided to make the best of it
and visited the Erie Canal Museum in Syracuse, which was pretty interesting.

West of Syracuse I picked up New York State bike route 5, a.k.a. state road
31 which parallels the (new) canal pretty nearly and has a nice level grade to
it.  I also got my first faceful of the headwinds that will persecute me all the way
to the pacific.  This slowed down progess, but not nearly as much as the hills
had over the past two days (moving average speed it up, as you can see
above).

I ran into another eastbound tourist today (if you think about it for a minute,
you'll realize that practically all the tourists I'm going to run into on this trip will
be eastbounders).  "Ian" is doing my trip in reverse: he started from Seattle on
April 13 and hopes to reach Boston in 8 days.  I asked him if he didn't run into
some weather at the higher elevations after such an early start.  Apparently so,
some of the Rocky Mountain passes (notably Lolo pass in Montana) had treated
him to rain, snow and hail.  I gave him my set of Rubel bike maps of western,
central and eastern Massachusetts since they are of no use to me now and might
help him considerably (they mark the big hills on those maps, in addition to
recommended roads for cycling).  I had 435 miles on my odomter, he had 2913.
The sum of these two numbers (3348) is considerably less than my original
estimate of the total distance from Boston to Seattle along the Northern Tier
route (4000 miles), and could mean a difference of a full week of cycling.
I will have to revisit that estimate.

Chip

I put in a good long day to celebrate reaching level terrain, but the
time spent in the Erie Canal Museum in Syracuse finally caught up to me in
the late afetrnoon and I took refuge in a motel as the sun was getting too
close to the horizon for my comfort.

