Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id BAA22761;
	Sat, 30 Jun 2001 01:11:42 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200106300511.BAA22761@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Subject: Bike Diary #3
Date: Thu, 28 Jun 2001 18:43 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 7

Day 6
Date: Thursday June 28, 2001
Distance: 69 miles
Moving average speed: 12.8 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Arrived at 3:00 PM
Overnight in Niagara County Camping Resort, northeast of Lockport, NY
latitude 43 d 14 m 1 s N
longitude 78 d 37 m 41 s W
Cumulative distance: 543 miles

Today is my 32nd birthday; I can't think of how I would rather have
spent it than doing exactly what I was doing today: riding a bicycle
across the US.

After my conversation with Ian, the eastbounder from Seattle, I went
over my mileage estimate again, and I came up with very nearly the
same figure I had before; namely, 4073 miles.  I suppose Ian could
have been wrong, but that's unlikely since cyclists by and large are
very scrupulous about getting credit for every inch travelled.  More
likely his route (which I know is not the same as mine) is shorter.
He did say he had taken Interstate 90 across Montana and North
Dakota.  Personally, I think half the point of an adventure such as
this is getting away from the interstates, so I'm not much tempted
to deviate to save miles.

As of today, the average daily mileage is 90, but that statistic will go
down alot over the next two days since tomorrow is another short day
and Saturday I'm not moving at all.  However, it is interesting to note
that if this pace is extrapolated forward, it puts me on a seven week
schedule to reach Seattle, right in the middle of the six-to-eight week
estimate I gave at the beginning.

It was a pretty easy day today.  I've been planning to stay with a friend
of mine from college in Buffalo, Owen Harrison, and it was going to be
more convenient for him to have me arrive tomorrow (Friday) than today,
so I inserted a day.  This is convenient for me as well, since it means I
can take a leisurely day through Niagara Falls and get my snapshots and
postcards and all that.

I spent the day switching between two different recommended bicycling
routes: the one from Adventure Cycling which says take the canal towpath
and the one from the state of New York which says take route 31.  In
places such as Rochester, route 31 is a pretty busy road and not much
fun to bike on.  In other places, the canal towpath deteriorates quite a bit
and its hard to make any time on it.  Fortunately the two routes are close
and parallel for most of the distance so switching back and forth as the
moment demands is not a problem.

I ran into more eastbounders today: this time a retired couple from Santa
Ana, CA who had flown to Cleveland and were riding east from there.
We performed the usual rituals observed by long-distance tourists under
these circumstances: we exchanged information on routes and roads and
other cyclists headed that way and then parted ways after the obligatory
"happy trails".

Tonight I'm in a campground that is an example of a phenomenon that I
had not realized existed in this country before I started touring.  It turns
out that there are alot of "campgrounds" in this country that basically
serve as summer (or even year-round)  homes for folks that can't afford
the more traditional variety.  They bring an RV or a trailer to the
"campground", pay a seasonal rate, and establish themselves as permanent
residents of the "campsite" for the duration.  Naturally, most folks want
something more for a home than what they get from a camper, and so
alot of them have built additions onto their campers that are more
permanent structures than the campers they are supposed to be
enhancing: framed in two-by-fours with wood siding, glass windows
and the works, it makes one wonder why they bother to maintain
the pretense of living in the camper.  Some of them have even built little
fences around their "campsites" and put lawn ornaments within!

It occurred to me that this is hardly a new phenomenon in this country.
If you go to the town of Oak Bluffs on Martha's Vineyard, the area 
around the Old Iron Tabernacle is filled with dozens of gorgeous, tiny 
carpenter-gothic wooden houses that were built there by folks who came
to the Vineyard for the camp meeting revival, but liked it so much there
that they started staying for the whole summer.  They only had their tent
sites from the camp meeting to build more permanent structures on, so
the houses had to be very small.  But I suppose a sort of 
keeping-ahead-of-the-Joneses effect made them get more and more
elaborate.  Anyway, it was clearly the same phenomenon going on there
over a hundred years ago that I am seeing around me here in my
campground in Lockport.

I should add, as a final bizarre postscript, that just as I was settling into
my tent to go to sleep I had a visit from my neighbor in the next
campsite who wanted to warn me about his dogs.  He said "They
don't bite, really, well there was that one little girl, but she charged
him ...."  I wonder what the backstory to the incident alluded to is.
I admit I lacked the courage at the time to ask.

