Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id BAA22785;
	Sat, 30 Jun 2001 01:12:07 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200106300512.BAA22785@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Subject: Bike Diary #2, addendum
Date: Wed, 27 Jun 2001 22:39 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 8


Some folks on the list have asked if I mind getting responses (the
usual concern is one of conserving cellular modem bandwidth).
Well, so far I have not been able to get the damn cellular modem
to do much of anything for me -- even with the strong signals
here in Rochester, NY it connects for a short while and then craps
out.  Forunately, it is not costing me much additional weight to
haul this POS around with me: just a PCMCIA card (that stays in
the handheld PC) and an twelve-inch cable to connect it to the
cellphone.  At any rate, on a landline I have plenty of BW to
spare, so as long as there are no attachments (which this thing is
not supposed to download anyway), I love getting responses,
especially news from home.

Apparently a few folks were inadvertently left off of the list and
are getting my reports second-hand from folks who were not.  I
apologize profusely to those who were overlooked.  I can, with
some difficulty, make additions to the mailing list from the road,
but it is a bit of a pain.  If you can line yourselves up somebody
on the list to forward the diary to you, that would certainly be
the easiest for me.  Second easiest would be to contact Darren
Leigh (dlleigh@frank.harvard.edu) and ask him to add you to
the bike-diary alias on frank.  If all else fails, I can log in from
the handheld and do it myself.

It appears that these reports are going to be pretty sporadic
since 1) cellular coverage of the back roads of America is worse
than I expected and 2) the cellular modem is more demanding
of signal quality than I expected and 3) the cellular modem is
more demanding of power than I expeted.  Ocassionally I pass
a cellular tower on the road (they're easy to recognize), but
without a source of AC power I can't really use the cellular
modem since it drains the two AA cells powering the handheld
almost instantly.  I plan to continue making daily entries, and
I will transmit them at the first opportunity, but that might be
only once or twice a week.

Some recent additions to the list were wondering where in hell
it is coming from.  So here's the story: my brother-in-law loaned
me his NEC MobilePro handheld PC, a MIPS R4000 powered
WinCE clamshell computer with full keyboard (thanks, Ross) and
I bought a 3Com 3CXM756 GSM & Cellular modem PCMCIA card
that I can plug into both the handheld PC and the cellphone (a
Nokia 6160m with AT&T Digital One-Rate service).  In principle,
that should be all that it takes; in practice it seems that it also
takes an AC power source and a landline.  Oh well, it was fun to
try.  Anyway, I am using these gizmos to send periodic (sporadic?)
reports from the road as I ride my bicycle from Boston to Seattle
to a list of folks who either expressed an interest or who I thought
would be interested.

The plan of the moment is now to arrive in Buffalo on Friday and
probably layover there Saturday.  I'll shoot for Lockport tomorrow
(Thursday) and have a leisurely day in Niagara Falls on Friday before
continuing down to Buffalo.  The next major cities on the route
after Buffalo are Erie, PA and Cleveland, OH; the route follows a
line about 15 miles south of Fort Wayne, IN at its closest approach.
There are a couple of folks I would love to see in the Chicago area,
but Adventure Cycling's route would take me well to the south of
Chicago, and I'm not sure if it's wise to detour.  I have at least until
Cleveland to make up my mind, and good maps of Ohio, Indiana
and Illinois if I decide to detour north.

Finally, if I'm not responding to your email quickly it's because my
MO is to send my responses, download new mail, then disconnect.
So you might not get a response to an email I just downloaded
until the next connection.  It doesn't mean that I'm ignoring you,
just coping with my connectivity limitations.

