Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id VAA16136;
	Wed, 4 Jul 2001 21:31:45 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200107050131.VAA16136@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Subject: Bike Diary #5
Date: Fri, 31 Aug 2001 19:57 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 10

Day 9
Date: Sunday, July 1, 2001
Distance: 118  miles
Moving average speed: 12.7 mph
Left at 7:50 AM
Arrived at 7:00 PM
Overnight in Cassidy's Presque Isle Trailer and Campground near Erie, PA
latitude 42 d 3 m 19 s N
longitude 80 d 8 m 28 s W
Cumulative distance: 729 miles

In the morning, today was all about wind.  When I left Amherst, there was
a cold front coming in and a brief shower made me wonder if I was in for
another inauspicious beginning.  Fortunately, the rain held off.  The wind
did not.  My route south of Lackawanna, NY was state road 5, which hugs
the southern coastline of Lake Erie from Buffalo to Conneaut, OH.  As one
might imagine, the wind comes off of Lake Erie with tremendous force
(especially with a cold front moving in), enough to slow my progress to a
crawl at times.  Then, much to my surprise and delight, the wind turned
out to be a fickle creature (undoubtably that cold front at work again) and
would turn around to my after quarter and push me along for a few miles
before turning abeam again.  The upshot was that most of the time the
going was pretty smooth today, it was 12:20 PM when my odometer
counted the 50th mile of the day (I consider it a good start if I have 50
miles by noon).  I even crossed a state line (NY/PA) and took the
inevitable photo of the bicycle leaning against the sign that says
"Welcome to Pennsylvania".

I don't know why it is that something always ends up making even a
relatively good day into a long one.  As I rolled down route 5, I kept
passing very nice looking campgrounds and thinking to myself that
this was all in accordance with the Principle of Maximum Perversity:
now when I only have 75 miles on the day there are campgrounds in
abundance, but as soon as I get over 100 and I'm ready to call it
a day, there will be none for 25 miles.  It was 5:00 PM when I reached
downtown Erie, PA.  The map showed two campgrounds in town,
one very close to the route and one quite a little ways off the route.
It should come as no surprise that, all other things being equal, the
closer campground is to be preferred.

I rolled up to the office of the Sara Coyne Campground and asked for
a tent site for the night.  The man on duty told me to go find one and
then come back to register it.  I think he must have known that as soon
as I had a look at their facilities for tent campers, I would seek lodging
elsewhere.  That campground was easily the most crowded one I've
seen so far on this trip.  There was no buffer zone between sites;
hundreds of RVs crammed into every square inch of ground;
nothing but grassless sandlots crammed in the corners for the tent
campers (BTW, this was another one of those campgrounds with
seasonal rates and campers with elaborate additions on them).  It
was a small wonder it was so crowded: the very popular beaches of
the Presque Isle State Park were within walking distance, as well as
a short strip of tourist traps and amusement parks.  Of course, I was
planning to avail myself of none of these attractions and could see
no reason to suffer an unpleasant night just to be in proximity to
them, so I did something that I have never done before on a tour
and with 110 miles on the odometer I left a campground to go try
to find a better one.

As I already mentioned, my map listed two campgrounds in Erie, PA.
>From the directions it gave for the second campground, I knew I
would have to back-track to the main route, Alternate Route 5, and
the go south 3.5 miles on State Road 832 and turn left on Love
Road.  After going a little more than 4 miles south on 832 I realized
that I must have missed the turn and my frustration with the project
of finding a suitable campsite was pretty high.  Fortunately, the map
also lists a phone number for the campground and I was carrying a
cellular telephone.

A little old lady's voice answered and I half expected her to tell me
that I had dialed the wrong number.  But instead she gave me an
unmistakable landmark (a cemetary) for finding Love Road, which
it turns out was not marked.  Cassidy's Campground is
a pretty odd place.  It's clearly been here a long time; the facilities
are quite old and one suspects that the little old lady who answered
my call and then greeted me upon my arrival has been running this
place most of her life.  The area is both very pretty and very quiet;
Walnut Creek runs a few feet from my tent and I share that privilege
with less than half a dozen other campers.  The proprietress even gave
me a substantial discount on the camping fee because I had arrived
under my own power and for her "it's too late to start making money
now."  She walks with a cane and with great difficulty, and the
campground itself is at the bottom of a steep hill behind the building
that is both her home and the campground office, so perhaps it has
been a few years since she has even seen it.  Things are deteriorated
but still functioning; the shower was warm and the electricity was on.
I have to admit that I am quite charmed by the place and glad that I
went out of my way to get here.

Tonight is getting very cold; that cold front that played havoc with
the wind today is supposed to bring temperatures in the 40s tonight.
I've had to pull out all the cold weather gear that I didn't think I
would need before reaching the higher elevations of Montana.

Day 10
Date: Monday July 2, 2001
Distance: 133 miles
Moving average speed: 15.0 mph
Left at: 8:00 AM
Arrived at: 8:00 PM
Overnight in Wa-Hoo Camping Grunds and Lounge near Sheffield Lake, Ohio
Latitude 41 d 27 m 43 s N
Longitude 82 d 4 m 10 s W
Cumulative distance: 862 miles

The moving average speed says it all this time; I woke up to perfect cycling
conditions.  Clear and sunny sky, cool temperature, level ground and a following
wind.  I had in mind to go quite a long distance today and there was only
one thing in my way that could slow me down: Cleveland.

My first real stop of the day was in a diner in Conneaut, Ohio just over the
state line from Pennsylvania (and yes, I did take a photo of my bicycle
leaning against the sign that says "Ohio Welcomes You").  In it's heyday,
Conneaut was a division point for two railroads: the New York, Chicago
and St Loius (better known as the "Nickel Plate Road") and the New York
Central.  Both railroads are still operating (albeit under different names:
the former is now part of Norfolk Southern and the latter CSX Transportation),
but the division point is gone, a victim of the transition from steam to diesel
locomotives.  Steam locomotives, romatic as they are, were very manpower
intensive to run, and once the conversion to diesel was completed, alot of
that manpower became redundant.  All that Conneaut has left to show for
its heritage is a small museum located in the former New York Central depot.
Unfortunately, it didn't open until noon today, and I was passing through
at 11 and couldn't see squandering an hour of perfect cycling conditions
waiting for it to open.

I ran into another eastbounder near Willowick, OH today.  He left Seattle on
May 20.  I calculate that he's ridden about 3180 miles in 42 days, which is 76
miles per day, very respectable going (I now have 862 miles after 10 days,
so I'm making slightly better time).  The one very valuable piece of
information he gave me was that I must make a point to stay a night in
Monroeville, IN, where they have a special facility specifically for
trans-America cyclists.  If things go according to schedule, I'll be
spending July 4 there.

My goal for today was to get to the west of Cleveland.  It's very unusual for
an Adventure Cycling route to go through a major city like Cleveland, but
the Northern Tier carries you right through downtown (and in front of the
Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, which was just closing when I
got there ... not that it would have made any difference either way).  This
forces you to slow down and spend alot of time waiting at traffic lights.
For my fellow Bostonians whose minds are perhaps boggling at the concept
of a bicycle waiting at a traffic light please bear in mind that you must be on
your best behavior when you are a guest in another city.  In the end, going
across Cleveland didn't cost me too much time, I still managed to get in
133 miles today.

My campground tonight is the first one after Cleveland that shows up on the
map.  It is perhaps one of the stranger ones I've stayed in so far on this trip.
When you approach the Wa-Hoo Campground and Lounge from the main
road (state road 611), you are not greeted by a sign that says "Campground",
but rather by one which says "Liquor: Wa-Hoo Tavern".  If I hadn't seen
an RV making  the turn in front of me, I would probably have assumed there
was another Wa-Hoo in the same neighborhood.  But no, they are one and
the same: walk up to the bar and ask them for a tent site for the night and
a Budweiser.  The campground itself is a bit of a shambles, but not much
worse than some of the others I've stayed at.

One last closing thought: today was a day when I actually spent alot of time
riding at the speed that would eventually be reported by the bicycle computer as
my average speed (the mean and the mode were nearly coincident).  This is
a property of riding on level ground; in hilly terrain you are almost never riding
at your average speed.

PS tonight I camped practically in the shadow of a cell tower, and still the
damned cellular modem couldn't hold a connection long enough to do
anything useful.  I'm convinced that data over CSC is practically impossible.

Day 11
Date Tuesday July 3, 2001
Distance: 56 miles
Moving average speed: 12.5 mph
Left at 7:45 AM
Arrived at 2:30 PM
Overnight in Winesburg motel in Clyde, OH
Latitude 41 d 18 m 32 s N
Longitude 82 s 58 m 22 s W
Cumulative distance: 919 miles

The day started out with dark clouds stretching from horizon to horizon.
I've gone out in conditions like this before and not been rained on, but
it's rare.  As the saying goes, if it doesn't rain on a day like this, then it's
missed a good chance.  I had barely put 8 miles on the odometer when
the rain began.  It was steady but not torrential, and I decided to try
waiting it out for an hour in a park shelter near Lorain, OH on the south
shore of Lake Erie.  About 40 minutes after it began, the rain subsided
and I was on my way again.

The rain did bring with it a more significant change in the weather,
namely the winds returned to their normal pattern which is from the
southwest and hard against me.  Cornfields and wheatfields may be
pretty to look at, but they provide precious little shelter from the wind.

Somewhere just east of Vermilion, OH an RV travelling in the opposite
direction on US route 6 started honking at me.  I had no idea what he
was on about, since obviously I couldn't be in his way.  A few minutes
later he had turned around, passed me with only inches to spare, and
then pulled over beside the road in front of me.  The next thing I know
a retired guy in his sixties strides out of the cab of the RV and starts
waving at me.  I pulled over and stopped behind his rig.  "Ted Bailey"
his says in a friendly Tennessee accent, extending his hand by way of
introducing himself.  "Chip Coldwell" I say in return while shaking his
hand.  It turns out that Ted's son, Mark, had left Detroit on a loaded
touring bicycle headed for Buffalo and Ted and his wife had driven
their RV up from Tennessee to meet him.  The last word Ted had from
Mark was that they should look for him near Vermilion, OH.  By the
time they realized I wasn't Mark, they had already made such a
spectacle they figured that they might as well say hi.  Now, I was
westbound and Mark should have been eastbound, but I guess a solo
touring cyclist is a rare enough sight on the road that I can forgive
them their mistake.  Ted rolled off in the direction of Vermilion
leaving me with instructions to yell "Hello, Mark Bailey" at any
eastbounders I see today in order to really blow his son's mind.

Things started to get hard with the wind, although mercifully the
rain held off.  At Huron, OH, I finally turned inland leaving Lake
Erie, and I had some hopes that I would leave the wind with it.
This didn't happen, but I did start rolling across farm country and
felt like I had finally made it into the midwest.

Then my knee started hurting.  Ever since I was a teenager, I've
had chondromalasia in both knees.  It flares up from time to time
on trips like this one, especially after a bunch of long days such as
I have just done.  The only thing to do for it is to slacken the pace
and take shorter days.  So today I bailed out at my first opportunity
after my knee gave out, hence the 56 miles and motel.  Tomorrow
I will shoot for Bowling Green, OH, which was originally my goal
for today.  Adding a day might be all it takes, or it might not; I'm
not especially worried since I had a bad flare up in both knees
somewhere around South Carolina on my last trans-America, and
I went on to finish in Seattle.

Day 12
Date: Wednesday July 4, 2001
Distance: 55 miles
Moving average speed: 12.3 mph
Left at 9:30 AM
Arrived at 4:20 PM
Overnight at Childers' home in Tontogany, OH
Latitude 
Longitude
Cumulative distance: 973 miles

The day started late because I did not expect my knees to have recovered
enough to make it a long one.  My plan since yesterday had been to spend
the night in Bowling Green, OH, thereby dividing what would have been a
single day from Lorain to Bowling Green into two days: Lorain to Clyde and
then Clyde to Bowling Green.

The route out of Clyde follows a bicycle path (a converted railroad right of
way as they often are) to Fremont, OH.  Unsurprisingly, bicycle paths are a
great place to meet other cyclists, and today was no exception.  Tim
Brutsche works for the Post Office in Clyde and is an avid cyclist.  He's done
a few group tours around Ohio and hopes to try long distance loaded
touring someday.  His dedication to the sport extended to underwriting a
bench beside the trail, proudly emblazoned with his name.  By the time
we reached Fremont a steady rain was falling, so we hid under a park
shelter in Fremont to wait it out which ended up being an opportunity for
me to give him a show-n-tell about my bicycle and assorted gizmos.

The rain abated after about an hour and I was on my way with Bowling
Green as the destination of the moment.  As the weather cleared, the wind
built up to something just short of a roaring gale from the southwest.  Every
so often the route would change from due west to due north (the roads in
rural Ohio are laid out strictly along the cardinal compass directions) and
I would get a brief taste of tailwind and some notion of what the east-
bounders experience in the midwest.  Those guys have it easy.

