Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id WAA22134;
	Sat, 7 Jul 2001 22:43:47 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200107080243.WAA22134@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Cc: tripoli@hotmail.com, timofclyde@yahoo.com, childers@wcnet.org
Subject: Bike Diary #6
Date: Wed, 5 Sep 2001 19:30 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 11

Day 13
Date: Thursday July 5, 2001
Distance: 85 miles
Moving average speed: 13.1 mph
Left at: 8:00 AM
Arrived at: 4:00 PM
Overnight in: cyclist shelter in Monroeville, IN
Latitude 40 d 58 m 7 s N
Longitude 84 d 51 m 55 s W
Cumulative distance: 1058 miles

Today I passed two major milestones: I crossed another state border
(Ohio to Indiana, and yes, I took that picture of the sign), and I logged
my 1000th mile.  Now it's easy to extrapolate forward: if I covered
1000 miles in 13 days then I should cover 4000 miles in 52 days, which
is 7 weeks and 3 days, within the range of my 6-to-8 week predeparture
prediction.  52 days from my starting date (June 23) is August 13.  I
would estimate the error on that prediction to be +/- 4 days, on the
grounds that I added 1 day of riding to the first 1000 miles to nurse
an injured knee, which extrapolates to 4 days over 4000 miles.

The weather today was fine, sunny with a high in the 70s, and the
riding conditions would have been perfect were it not for the damn
headwind.  It was from the northwest this time, so I could get a 
little component of it behind me every time my route turned a little
bit south.  But along the stretches of roads aligned due west it was
a real grind.

I should digress on the subject of that headwind.  If I could have a
nickel for every time somebody has told me that I am riding the
"wrong way" across the country because the prevailing winds blow
from west to east, then I would start getting invited to Bill Gates'
parties.  Generally speaking, my interlocutors do not even appreciate
the full difficulty of riding from east to west, because not only are the
prevailing winds against you, but so are the prevailing hills.

You may recall from a previous Bike Diary entry my discussion of
why it is that one should always prefer to go gradually down hill
as opposed to an exhilerating rapid descent that squanders all
the energy gained from climbing into wind resistance (this is not my
opinion, it is a fact of physics).  Well, if you think about it, Denver
is a mile high (5000 feet above sea level), but still east of the
Front Range of the Rockies.  The Mississippi River, on the other hand,
is only a few hundred feet above sea level.  This is true everywhere
as you approach the Rockies from the east (for example, Cut Bank,
MT on my route is just short of 4000 feet elevation).  Therefore,
going west across the great plains you are gradually climbing, only
to rapidly descend again when you get across the continental divide.
The eastbounders, on the other hand, get the benefit of playing out
their altitude gain gradually over a long distance as they descend
across the great plains.

So, why go west?  Personally, I feel that flying to the west coast and
bicycling back is the moral equivalent of getting air lifted to the top
of Everest, skiing down to the base camp and then claiming to have
climbed the mountain.  It is as if you wanted the bragging rights to say
you rode your bicycle across the country, but you wanted to obtain them
with the least amount of exertion necessary.  If you live on the east
coast, and you want to ride across the continent, it seems perfectly
obvious to me that what you need to do is ride west.  One should not
undertake such a project as this if you want to do something easy.

OK, end of tirade.  Just remember this the next time you meet someone
who claims to have bicycled across the country: the westbounders are
the real cyclists.

Speaking of westbounders, I may be closing in on some ahead of me.
I stopped in at the bicycle store in Defiance, OH to see if they had any
news of westbounders.  Apparently a couple, short in stature, had
passed through four days ago.  I wonder if this is the same couple
making a perimeter tour that I heard about from the scruffy eastbounder
on route 20 in upstate NY (see Day 4, Bike Diary #2).  If so, they were
8-9 days ahead of me then and are only 4 days ahead of me now, so
I may be closing the gap.  In 10 days I've gained 4 on them, with 4
more to go, so I would guess that I will probably catch up to them
in another 10 days, around July 15.  Stay tuned.

I'm spending tonight in Monroeville, IN.  Monroeville is like the set of
a Frank Capra movie: you have your supper in the Village Cafe (two
fried pork chops with mashed potatoes and gravy and a side salad for
six bucks) and a chocolate malted from the Whippy Dip for dessert.
The clientele of the Whippy Dip is a small crowd of flirting teenagers,
there's a little league baseball game going on the playing field
in the city park, and after dark the fireflies come out in swarms.
You may have thought that places like this didn't exist any more,
but here in middle America civil small town life is alive and well.
You don't lock up your bike and you don't worry about it, either.

My accomodation here in Monroeville is a pavillion in the city park
that has been set up as a shelter specifically for long distance touring
cyclists.  There's a small bathroom with every imaginable amenity
from warm shower to washer/dryer for your laundry.  The hospitable
residents of Monroeville expect nothing in return: you can leave a
donation but there's no obligation.  There's a guest book where you
can leave your name, starting point and destination, and from the
list of names it appears that Monroeville is a popular destination for
touring cyclists: there's a few coming through every couple of days.
I scanned the list for evidence of westbounders ahead of me to no avail.

Day 14
Date: Friday July 6, 2001
Distance: 83 miles
Moving average speed: 14.1 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Arrived at 2:30 PM
Overnight in Salamonie River State Forest near Wabash, IN
Latitude 40 d 48 m 42 s N
Longitude 85 d 41 m 53 s W
Cumulative distance: 1141

Although I rode 83 miles today, I only advanced 56 along the route to
Seattle.  There were two reasons for the extra 27 miles today, the first
was an inadvertent detour first thing in the morning when I left
Monroeville headed in the wrong direction.  Here's and important fact
for you future trans-America cyclists to remember: the sun rises in the
east and sets in the west.  Therefore, if you are navigating the midwestern
grid on a sunny morning thinking that you are going west but you do
not see your shadow in front of you, then something is terribly wrong.
It took me about three or four miles to notice this discrepancy, miles
which I had to double back, of course.  The second detour was up
to Fort Wayne to pick up some mail that my friends Maria and Kate
sent me (thanks Kate! thanks Maria!).  I love mail.

The rest of the day was full of county roads and cornfields in Indiana.
The wind more or less behaved itself today, starting the morning from
the southeast before settling back into its usual pattern of coming from
the southwest.  It wasn't much of a wind in either direction, maybe
5-10 mph.  I could easily have made it a longer day, but there is a real
scarcity of services along this particular stretch of the route.  The next
campground is 38 miles farther on, and there isn't a motel in the next
87 miles.  I probably could have managed the 38 miles to the next
campground, but in deference to my still aching knees I quit much
earlier in the afternoon than I would normally.

It looks like I made an impressively early start today, but that turns
out to be a bit of a trick.  Although most of Indiana is in the eastern
time zone, the state does not observe daylight savings time (except
for the part in the cental time zone, just for maximum confusion) so
at this time of year I crossed into the central time zone for all
practical purposes when I crossed the Indiana border.

My campground tonight is a "primitive facility" which translates to
no shower and pit toilets.  Generally speaking, I don't much mind
primitive campgrounds as they are generally alot emptier than the
ones that cater to the RV crowd and provide full hookups (water
and electrical).  This one is an exception to that rule: there's hardly
a vacant site.  I suppose it must be because of the holiday weekend
since there isn't anything terribly exciting to do in the neighborhood.
Most of the other campers are sitting in their sites experimenting 
with all the noise-making gear they have brought along (firecrackers,
car stereos, bongo drums, you name it).  Oh well, after all these
days on the road I think I could sleep through anything.

Day 15
Date: Saturday July 7, 2001
Distance: 86 miles
Moving average speed: 12.1 mph
Left at 9:30 AM
Arrived at 6:15 PM
Overnight in White House B&B in Rensselaer, IN
Latitude 40 d 55 m 52 s N
Longitude 87 d 9 m 6 s W
Cumulative distance: 1227 miles

I awoke this morning at 5 AM (EST) to the sound of distant thunder.  At
first, I didn't realize that it was thunder I was hearing.  I'm accustomed to
thunder as an intermitent booming; the sound I hear this morning was
a continuous background.  After I had ruled out military aircraft on
manueovers as a possible source for the sound I heard, I realized that I
was in big trouble.  My immediate thought was "strike the tent and seek
shelter".

That probably seems strange to alot of people who figure that the tent
IS shelter, but you may recall from my first night's experience that if
the tent is pitched on a slope, then it provides precious little shelter
from runoff soaking through the floor of the tent.  I had once again
pitched the tent on a slope, not expecting rain.  In fact, it seemed that
most of the folks in the campground were not expecting (or at least
prepared for) the rain that came.

By 6 AM I had my gear stowed my gear and loaded on the bicycle, and I
moved myself and the bicycle to the only shelter on the campground: a
pavillion that protected, ironically enough, the campground's water supply.
The water supply itself was nothing but a spigot, but it spilled into a catch
basin that looked like it came out of a coroner's office: it was a shallow
sink no wider than usual but long enough to lay down in.  The pavillion
overhangs this sink by three or four feet on any side, therefore the entire
sheltered area was no bigger than about eight by ten feet.

At 6:10 AM the rains came with a vengance.  I cannot remember the last
time I saw such torrential rain and so much lightning.  I believe that more
than four inches of rain fell during the next three and a half hours, with
lightning hitting very close to where I was standing.  I now could under-
stand why the distant thunder had been continuous, because I was now
standing in the middle of it.  And there I stood, for about three and a half
hours, making light conversation with some of the other campers who
dared step out in the storm and waiting for it to end.  One guy seemed to
have an unnaturally detailed knowledge of the roads and motels of
Indiana; when I asked him what line of work he was in he said he was
following power lines.  Apparently utilities hire these guys to go around
the state following the power lines to make sure there are no trees nearby
that threaten to fall on them.

At 9:30 AM it was clear that the worst of the storm had passed and I
decided to head out and make the most of what was left of the day.
I'm pretty much ready to get out of Indiana, having already spent more
time crossing Ohio than I had hoped.

The day started out as a more or less routine one of grinding out miles
across cornfields.  The wind was quite strong in the aftermath of the
storm, but it had returned to its normal direction (southwest), so I
concluded that the rain was probably over for the day.  The weather
was hot and humid, and the pace pretty slow.  I ran into some
eastbounders in Denver, IN.  I wouldn't have recognized them as
tourists because they were travelling on unloaded bikes, but one of
them stopped to talk to me.  They are a group of three men in their
late 50s/early 60s doing the Northern Tier in sections while somebody's
wife drives the camper/sag-wagon behind.  Boy, these guys have it
easy: not only are they eastbound but supported as well!  And he had
the nerve to complain to me about headwinds!  "Take a look at that
flag" I said.

My goal for today after I realized that it would be abbreviated by rain
was to make it to Rensselaer, IN.  I'm passing through a part of Indiana
where the campgrounds are scarce (and so is the population), so I had
to shoot for a town with a motel.  Upon, arriving in Rensselaer, I was
greeted by a parade of hot-rods (in fact, some locals had stopped me
about two miles from town to warn me that it was happening today).
I would estimate that there was well over one hundred cars in the parade,
and after it was over they proceeded to cruise the town revving engines
and peeping tires much to the delight of the townsfolk, who had turned
out to the last man to observe the spectacle.  I suppose this is some sort
of July Forth weekend event that happens every year.

I ended up picking the B&B for the night since the only other option was
a motel on the interstate.  It might have been cheaper, but I would really
hate staying on an interstate strip four miles outside of town.  At least
this way I could walk around town and watch the cars go by.  I think I
was making slightly better time on foot than the cruisers were, but maybe
that's their point.

