Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id WAA22190;
	Sat, 7 Jul 2001 22:44:36 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200107080244.WAA22190@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Cc: tripoli@hotmail.com, timofclyde@yahoo.com, childers@wcnet.org
Subject: Bike Diary #5, addendum
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2001 18:36 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 12


I was in abit of a rush to get the last Bike Diary entry off, and so
I left out what is probably the most important part.  The more
perceptive readers may have noticed that I reported spending the
night at "Childers' home" near Bowling Green, Ohio.

I was wandering the rectilinear roads of northwest Ohio realizing
that I had missed my turn onto Tontogany Road and trying to
improvise an alternative route (not too hard given the strict
adherance of the roads to the cardinal directions) when a red
Mazda passed me and then stopped ahead of me.  Chuck Childers
noticed my load, assumed I was riding a long distance and asked
the standard question "where to and where from?".  After
boggling his mind a little bit with my response, he asked where
I was spending the night.  I had already overshot Bowling Green,
which had for a while been my destination for that day, on
account of my knee starting to feel a little better, and was thinking
about adding an extra 14 miles or so to the day to spend the
night a Mary Jane Thurston State Park near Grand Rapids, OH.
Then Chuck asked me what I was having for dinner.  I made a
vague motion toward my pannier and said "I have some pasta
I bought in Bowling Green."  Next thing I knew, he had invited
me to join his family for dinner and a quiet July 4 celebration
at their home.  I couldn't think of a good reason not to take
him up on the offer, so I did.  Chuck gives me his address and
says he'll meet me there after he and his son, Seth, are done
running a quick errand.  "We're getting firecrackers!" Seth
gleefully explains.

Interestingly, their home is on the road that I missed turning
on when I got lost, i.e. right on the Adventure Cycling Northern
Tier route.  I told them that if they wanted to make it a habit to
take in wandering cyclists, there would probably be a good
supply passing by (in fact, I was a little bit surprised that they
hadn't noticed any before me ... maybe alot of folks are missing
that turn).

Chuck's wife, Barb, has recently rediscovered cycling and has
been riding a trail near their home nearly every day.  I think I
may have planted the seed of an idea with them to go a little
bit farther on their bicycles.  I've become something of a
bicycle touring evangelist on this trip.

Anyway, they fed me, gave me a place to sleep, and Barb even
did my laundry! (Just in the nick of time, actually ... things were
getting pretty stinky).  Their hospitality was way above and
beyond what is due to a stranger ... it's good to know that there
are people like that in the world.

