Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id WAA11204;
	Mon, 9 Jul 2001 22:29:29 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200107100229.WAA11204@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Cc: tripoli@hotmail.com, timofclyde@yahoo.com, childers@wcnet.org
Subject: Bike Diary #7
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2001 17:35 -0400
Status: RO
X-Status: 
X-Keywords:                 
X-UID: 13

Day 16
Date: Sunday July 8, 2001
Distance: 54 miles
Moving average speed: 14.6 mph
Left at 9:30 AM (EST)
Arrived at 2:40 PM (CDT)
Overnight in Ashkum City Park, Ashkum, IL
Latitude 40 d 52 m 43 s N
Longitude 87 d 57 m 4 s W
Cumulative distance: 1281 miles

Today started late: the B&B didn't serve breakfast until 8:30 AM and there
was no way I was going to miss mine.  My knee had been acting up quite
a bit yesterday, there were some incidents so painful that I was forced to
stop the bike, pant and cuss for a little while before proceeding.  I even
contemplated staying an extra day in Rensselaer to rest it, but remarkably
enough it didn't feel so bad this morning so I figured to make it a short
day instead.

Early in the day I crossed the border into Illinois on a county road so
obscure that the state had not bothered to erect a "Welcome to
Illinois" sign there.  The only indication that I had crossed a political
boundary was a subtle change in the quality of the road surface.
Thus I was deprived of the opportunity to take a photograph of my
bicycle leaning against a sign.

The riding was more midwestern routine: ride as many miles as you can
before the wind kicks up in the early afternoon, then shift down
and grind until evening.  At least, that was my plan.  Things went
pretty much according to plan, and the knee was feeling pretty good,
so I was even contemplating pushing on to the next town, Odell, beyond
my original destination of Ashkum.

I should digress a moment on the subject of Gatorade.  The near ubiquitous
market penetration of this beverage makes for one of the great simple pleasures
of long distance bicycle touring.  It is cold and sweet, practically every small
town convenience store stocks it, and generally a 32 oz bottle can be had for
less than two bucks.  It also provides a convenient excuse to ask the folks at
the store to fill your bottles with water; after all you are now a customer, not
just some schmoe off the street.  It takes me less than ten minutes to drain
one, although if I feel like lingering I can stretch it out to fifteen or twenty.
Thus, the touring cyclist can sate his thirst and replenish his electrolytes in
about the time it takes to rest the legs without stiffening them.

It was the lure of Gatorade that made me pause in Ashkum, although by this
point my strengthening knee had caused me to push my goal for the day to
Odell, 40 miles farther on.  And it was definitely a place to gulp not sip;
there was nothing but a convenience store parking lot to linger in.  However,
it was as I was gulping that I happened to look to the southwest and saw
dark clouds on the horizon.

Now, my experience two days ago in the Salamonie State Forest had taught
me a profound respect for midwestern thunderstorms.  And there was something
about those clouds that just didn't look peaceful to me.  According to my map,
the town of Ashkum allows cyclists to camp in the city park (city parks are
actually a rather common way of bridging the long gaps between campgrounds
in the middle of the country), but one should get "permission from the mayor"
first.  There was no telephone number listed for the mayor, so I figured to roll
down and have a look at the park and see if it was the kind of place I would
like to stay before trying to figure out how to reach him.

When I got there, there was a small group of maybe 20-25 people gathered
under the pavillion in the park.  It looked like quite a reasonable place to
overnight, so I pulled out my map to look up the telephone number of the
police department, figuring they would know how to reach the mayor.  At
this point, one of the men under the pavillion walks up to me and introduces
himself as Ed Tholen.  He tells me that quite a few cyclists have overnighted
here, and I would be welcome to as well.  I tell him that my map says that
I should get permission from the mayor, and he tells me that the mayor was
here just a minute ago, but had to leave to fight a fire.  Apparently the mayor
is also on the volunteer fire department.  Fortunately, Ed tells me, the mayor's
mother is here to act as his proxy.  The mayor's family, the Heidemans are
having one of their annual reunions in the park today.  That said, he summons
Ruth Heideman, and I very formally ask her permission to bivouac in the park,
which she grants.  I move my bike under the cover of the pavillion and start
chewing the fat with Ed.

Naturally, most folks are interested in getting some idea of the scale of the
project: how far are you going? how far have you come? how long have
you been on the road? when do you expect to finish? how far have you
come today?

I felt a little need to make excuses for the puny 54 miles I had covered today.
After all, I was quitting at 2:30 PM with plenty of daylight left to burn.  But
my knee was sore, you see, and I don't much like the look of those clouds
on the horizon.  "Well, you're welcome to stay," says Ed, "but I don't think
it will rain today."

Not ten minutes after those words were uttered, a torrential rain started
pounding the pavillion.  Ed is forced to eat his words in front of his family,
but does so as gracefully as one can.  In the meantime, dessert is being
served and I am invited to join in.  The mayor, Paul Heineman, returns from
the fire for his dessert.  A man in his mid-thirties, he has been mayor of 
Ashkum for the last 16 years, elected to his first term as a write-in candidate
at the age of 20.  He's been a volunteer fireman even longer.  Paul had run
into another cyclist at the convenience store where I drank my Gatorade
and offered him the use of the park facilities.  But apparently that cyclist had
decided to try to get to the next motel (east or west, I don't know, going
west he would have faced another 35 miles, east 54).  We all congratulated
my prudence and admonished his foolhardiness.  But we didn't know the
half of it yet.

After dessert, as folks were packing up, the storm really starts to pick up.  We
all moved into the enclosed kitchen at the end of the pavillion to avoid the
rain being blown under it.  At this point the storm releases its full fury: the
wind really kicks up, blowing down a 40-foot tree in the city park and a
number of limbs from other trees as we watched from the kitchen.
Tremendous quantities of rain were blown horizontal by the wind and
visibility was reduced to nil.  It was the sort of storm that kicks up twisters
in this neck of the woods (which apparently it did, a little to the south
of Ashkum), and I was awfully pleased to be watching it from inside the
city park pavillion kitchen instead of riding through it.  I have no idea
what happened to the other cyclist; if he was westbound I might yet
catch up to him.  However it was clear that I had dodged a bullet, and a
pretty big one at that.

After the storm abated, the Heidemans and Tholens started to ply me with
the leftovers from their reunion.  It was as if the full bounty of the midwest
was laid out before me on a plate: fried chicken, meatloaf, corn, cakes, pies
cookies, coffee, so much food that even in my depleted state I had a hard
time doing it justice.

Day 17
Date: Monday July 9, 2001
Distance: 100 miles
Moving average speed: 14.5 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Arrived at 4:30 PM
Overnight in Henry Harbor Inn, Henry, IL
Latitude 41 d 6 m 38 s N
Longitude 89 d 21 m 6 s W
Cumulative distance: 1381 miles

I managed to get an early start today, which helped alot since the
afternoon temperatures were brutally hot.  The day quickly turned
into a routine midwestern grind, and although the air was hot and
humid, it was mercifully still and I was able to make pretty good
time.  The riding can sometimes get a little dull.  When there are
two crops then there are only four scenes to bike through: corn
on the left with soybeans on the right, corn on the right with
soybeans on the left, corn on both sides, and soybeans on both
sides.  I don't know who's eating all this stuff, but there sure must
be alot of them given all the acres of Illinois devoted to growing it.

Just east of Cornell, IL I ran into two eastbounders: a teacher from
southeastern Idaho and his 13-year-old son riding from their home
to a family reunion in Ohio.  They got pummelled in the storm
yesterday and had to take shelter in an abandoned farm house.  I
admire the boy for going on a trip like this instead of sitting at home
playing video games (not that I haven't been known to play a few
myself).  I was not much older than he (15?) when my dad took me
on my first long-distance tour: a much more modest trip from
Florida to North Carolina.

The other small surprise was in Cornell where the store where I
bought my Gatorade had a registry for all the cyclists passing
through to sign in.  There was a couple going from New Jersey
to British Columbia about five days ahead of me whose names I
had seen in the registry in the Monroeville park.  I can't remember
how much they preceded me by there, so I can't tell if I'm
gaining on them or falling behind.

When doing long distance bicycle trips, one becomes a good deal
more familiar with the road-builder's art than the average citizen.  The
word "tarmac" derives from tar-macadam, which pretty completely
describes the process of building a road with this surface.  Take any
old county dirt road, pour tar on it, pour macadam on that, and then
crush the latter into the former and you can claim a hard-surface road.
(BTW, the "tarmac" at most major airports is actually made of concrete).

Adventure Cycling promises to route cyclists only on hard-surface roads.
However, in their zeal to keep us away from traffic, the route across
Illinois mostly travels on county roads with tarmac surfaces.  Tarmac is
just fine for bicycling in about 70 degrees, but on a hot, sultry afternoon
reaching into the 90s such as the one just passed, the tar softens, sticks
to the tires of the bicycle and then picks up loose macadam until the
entire circumference of the tire is encrusted.  Meanwhile, since the entire
weight of the bicycle, load and cyclist are supported on two very small
points (the tires are inflated to 100 PSI and don't distend much), the
bicycle tends to sink into the tar a bit.  The net effect is something like
pushing a tank through molasses.

Late in the afternoon as the tarmac was softening and I was nearing the
end of strength, I had pretty nearly made up my mind that as soon as I
reached a state road with an asphalt surface I was going to take my
chances with the traffic and stay on the hard surface, freelancing my
own route to Muscatine if necessary (I have a very good Illinois state
map for just such occassions).  But the Adventure Cycling route picked
up State Road 17 and then Tax School Road, both of which had asphalt
surfaces and that brought me into Henry without any more tarmac.

I did get a bit of a treat on Tax School Road when a combine harvester
pulled out just in front of me.  For those of you unfamiliar with the
more advanced techniques of midwestern cycling, a combine harvester
is just about the perfect vehicle to draft: they cruise at about 18 mph
and have an enormous cross-section to the wind.  You might get a
faceful of chaff, but hey, that's the price of a free ride.  Anyway,
I got about three miles of effortless cycling before he turned off again,
and it was just the morale boost I needed to finish today's century.

