Received: from psfcsv1.psfc.mit.edu ([198.125.176.238]) by ALFA60.PSFC.MIT.EDU
          with ESMTP for CMOD_WEEKLY@cmod.psfc.mit.edu;
          Mon, 22 Aug 2005 13:28:00 -0400
Received: from [198.125.176.52] (cmodws08.psfc.mit.edu [198.125.176.52])
	by psfcsv1.psfc.mit.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1) with ESMTP id j7MHS1jm017878;
	Mon, 22 Aug 2005 13:28:01 -0400
Message-ID: <430A0B20.6000802@psfc.mit.edu>
Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2005 13:28:00 -0400
From: "Stephen M. Wolfe" <wolfe@psfc.mit.edu>
User-Agent: Mozilla Thunderbird 0.7.3 (X11/20040803)
X-Accept-Language: en-us, en
MIME-Version: 1.0
To: CMOD_WEEKLY@cmod.psfc.mit.edu
Subject: Alcator C-Mod Weekly Highlights
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii; format=flowed
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Scanned-By: MIMEDefang 2.45

		Alcator C-Mod Weekly Highlights
			August 22, 2005

FY2005 weeks of research operations
Planned: 17 weeks
Completed: 16.7 weeks

Operations
----------

Research operations continued at Alcator C-Mod last week. Two run days were
scheduled and completed. A total of 44 plasma discharges were produced with
a startup reliability over 80%. The two run days supported three experiments,
including MiniProposals from the RF Physics and Transport areas and the
Operations group.

Research operations are planned to continue this week.

Run Details
-----------

The first half of the run on Thursday was devoted to MP#389 "Compact Neutral
Paricle Analyzer (CNPA) Testing and Calibration". This experiment, which
comprises part of the thesis research of an MIT graduate student, concerns
diagnosis of ICRF-generated hydrogen tail ions by pulse-height analysis of
charge exchanged neutrals, including both passive measurements and active
charge exchange measurements using the diagnostic neutral beam (DNB). For
these experiments, two diagnostic systems, at F-port and a newly-installed two
channel detector at C-port, were employed.  ICRF minority heating was carried
out for target plasmas at 600 and 800kA and Bt=5.2T, using the E-port and
J-port antennas oprating at frequencies of 80 and 78MHz respectively.  Density
scans were carried out at both currents. Passive fast ion signals with high
count rates were observed. The spectra were energetic, with some distributions
almost flat between 100 and 400keV. In addition, clear active charge exchange
signals were obtained using the DNB.  The CNPA signal was found to be
sensitive to edge neutral pressure.

The second half of Thursday's run was dedicated to MP#430 "Localization of the
boronization effect" from the Operations group. Three between-shot
boronizations were performed to assess the relative effectiveness of wide
versus narrow scans of the ECDC resonance location and of 100% vs 50% duty
factors in the boronization discharge. All post-boronization discharges
exhibited good initial H-mode performance, but these were limited by impurity
injections. The 100% duty factor cases required longer pump-out times before
attempting the next shot than did the 50% example.

The run on Friday was devoted to MP#400a, "High k, high frequency
fluctuations in electron transport dominated regimes" from the Transport 
Science group. The purpose of this experiment is to look for changes in 
density fluctuations, particularly those at short wavelength and high 
frequency ,in low density Ohmic regimes, where transport is known to be 
dominated by the electron channel. The goal is to correlate electron transport 
levels with fluctuations at scales that might correspond to predicted 
instabilities.  Density scans were carried out in both inner-wall limited and 
lower single null equilibria, although the lowest density regime was only 
accessible in the divertor discharges because of high disruptivity in the 
limter configuration. Initial assessment of the density fluctuations observed 
by the PCI (Phase Contrast Imaging) diagnostic did not indicate the presence 
of significant high-k fluctuations. High frequency magnetic fluctuations which 
had been previously observed during current rise and fall in single null 
plasmas, were observed throughout the limiter discharges, suggesting possible 
damping of the modes due to edge magnetic shear in diverted cases.

ICRF Systems
------------

During the planned ICRF system conversion to 78 MHz, Uptegraff #3 power supply
(27 kV, 150 A) developed a short between the HVDC and LVDC taps.  To continue
with J antenna operation, the antenna was reconfigured as a dipole and resumed
plasma operation on August 18th using only FMIT#4.  J-port operation as a two
strap antenna has reliably supplied 1.5 MW of power to the plasma.  Repair of
the uptegraff supply will begin following the current run period.


Lower Hybrid System
-------------------

Finite element analysis of the 24-window prototype is complete.  Stresses were
found to be at allowable levels, and we are proceeding with preparations for
the braze test.  Two of the four new stainless steel couplers are in house
with two more expected this week. Enough new alumina windows are in house to
braze all the couplers .  Inspections and bake tests of the windows indicate
very high quality material and metal coatings.  Preparations for phase and
amplitude measurements continue in collaboration with PPPL.

Long Pulse Diagnostic Neutral Beam System
-----------------------------------------

Two Russian scientists from the Budker Institute arrived on Monday night for a
two-week stay, during which they will recondition the DNB back up to full
performance.  They have been running the beam during C-Mod runs, including
into the plasma on Thursday, in the evenings after C-Mod shuts down, and over
the weekend.

The IR pyrometer for monitoring inboard wall heating by the long-pulse DNB
has been calibrated and is ready to install.


Travel and Visitors
--------------------

Ted Biewer traveled to PPPL to participate in an experiment (XP505) on NSTX,
which was run Tuesday and Wednesday with Rajesh Maingi of ORNL/PPPL and
Hendrik Meyer of UKAEA.  Tuesday's run was dedicated to locating the L-H power
threshold in NSTX plasmas as the plasma shape was varried between double-null
(DN), lower-single-null (LSN), and upper-single-null (USN), where the
auxilliary power was supplied by co-current Neutral Beam Injection (NBI).  The
plasma shapes which were developed on Tuesday, using rtEFIT control, were then
used on Wednesday to explore the L-H power threshold, where the auxilliary
power was supplied by the HHFW RF-antenna. In both NBI and HHFW heated cases,
the lowest L-H power threshold was found in balanced DN, though the power
threshold was lower in NBI heated plasmas (factor of 2).  The power threshold
increase in LSN by about a factor of 2 in both cases, compared to DN.  And the
power threshold increased in USN by about a factor of 4 in NBI heated plasmas,
compared to DN.  USN in HHFW heated plasmas was not attempted due to the lack
of runtime, and the indication from the above trends that the amount of power
required would be greater than that which could be supplied by the RF antenna,
for this shape.  Analysis of data, particularly edge flow velocity, is
pending.

Dr. Petr P. Deichuli and Mr. Grigory Shulzhenko from the Budker Institute for
Nuclear Physics in Novosibirsk, Russia arrived Monday evening for a two-week
stay. They will be working on the Long Pulse Diagnostic Neutral Beam.
