Received: from postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu (postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu [132.236.56.14])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.7-20031020/8.11.7/M-3.22) with ESMTP id k2SGArY13814
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 28 Mar 2006 11:10:53 -0500 (EST)
Received: from orpheus3.dataserver.cornell.edu (orpheus3.dataserver.cornell.edu [128.253.161.167])
	by postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu (8.12.10/8.12.6) with ESMTP id k2SGAodO024617;
	Tue, 28 Mar 2006 11:10:50 -0500 (EST)
Message-ID: <2016044341.1143562250238.JavaMail.webber@orpheus3.dataserver.cornell.edu>
Date: Tue, 28 Mar 2006 11:10:50 -0500 (EST)
From: Gopal Parameswaran <gp72@cornell.edu>
To: egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu
Subject: PAPER 16
Cc: gp72@cornell.edu
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
X-Mailer: uPortal WEB email client 3.0
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by sundial.cs.cornell.edu id k2SGArY13814

Eigentrust Algorithm
This paper addresses discusses a way to deal with accountability in peer to peer networks by making peers use Global trust values based on Power iteration and identification and isolation of malignant peers. In EigenTrust each peer is is assigned a unique global trust value that reflects the experiences of all peers in the network with peer i where the interactions occur in a distributed and node-symmetric manner with minimal overhead on the network besides being attaining the functionalities of a self-policing,anonymous network. Also it should be noted that the network does not assign any profit to newcomers which discourage attacks on the network by ensuring that the reputation should be obtained by consistent good behaviour through several transactions and prevent malicious peers with poor reputations to continuously change their opaque identifiers to obtain newcomers status. By using a probabilistic model the system also attempts to prevent a collective subversion of the system by a group of peers. This system is based on the assumption that there are some peers in the system that are trustworthy and claims that the first few peers for example that join the network early on are known to be trustworthy because they would be the designers of the network and would have less motivation to destroy the system. This assumption however also introduces the possibility that the malignant peers can join when the network is being built and start behaving in a malignant way after a certain period and hte system would not be able to detect that in time. Such a notion of trust does break the reputation schema. Also for the localized trust value to converge it is essential that that there are pre trusted peers in the system and it is important that no pre-trusted peer be a member of a malicious collective which in turn would compromise the system and destroy the reputation system. Thus the system chooses as its primary peers a few peers that are highly trusted as for example the designers of the network and this in turn coul
 peers since they would be overloaded in the system. This reputation system does however provide a collective measure of responsibility measure and a measure of reputation based on a global list of peers though the list of peers that actually influence the list is actually more definitive and hence more deterministic and chosen at the start of the network. The authors should have also chosen a more probabilistic model for their reputation schema which could have yielded better results without placing restrictions on prior known peers with reputation and should have introduced a learning model that could have done more effective filtering of the malignant peers.

Robust Reputation System
In this paper the authors propose a learning mechanism to implement a reputation schema that is based on bayesian networks and also by splitting up the reputation system into two parts viz. a reputation rating schema and a trust rating schema. The authors also removes the dependance on selected prior peers and thus helps to make the system really distributed and dynamic where the ratings are dependant on a set of values are that are maintained by others. The reputation rating represents the opinion formed by node i about the node j’s behaviour as an actor in the base system (for example, whether node j correctly participates in the routing protocol of a mobile ad-hoc network, or whether it provides correct files in a peer-to-peer file-sharing system). The trust rating represents node i’s opinion about how honest the node j is as an actor in the reputation system (i.e. whether the reported first hand information summaries published by node are likely to be true). The reputation and trust ratings and first hand information about the node i iss tored by node j in  a set of data structures. This system maintains a bayesian network at each of the node where each node models the behaviour of the other nodes and updates the uncertainity by updating hte probability distribution as new observations become available. The system also improves on a standard bayesian network by giving more weightage to more recent information and thus introducing a concept of reputation fading where the dependance on older reputation values are less. Thus the system proves to be an effective reputation based network due to the inherent property of re-evaluation of bayesian networks and the concept of repuation fading newly introduced. This system measure false positives and uses this measure for its test for malignant peers.

