Received: from unicorn.acs.ttu.edu (unicorn.acs.ttu.edu [129.118.2.22]) by zingg.weru.ksu.edu (8.6.9/8.5) with SMTP id HAA04974; Fri, 15 Sep 1995 07:55:53 -0500
Received: from  (localhost) by unicorn.acs.ttu.edu (5.0/SMI-4.1)
	id AA15112; Fri, 15 Sep 1995 07:31:27 -0500
Date: Fri, 15 Sep 1995 07:31:27 -0500
Errors-To: tzobeck@lubbock.ars.ag.gov
Message-Id: <950915083015_19979799@emout05.mail.aol.com>
Errors-To: tzobeck@lubbock.ars.ag.gov
Reply-To: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Originator: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Sender: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Precedence: bulk
From: HURLEYER@aol.com
To: Multiple recipients of list <wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu>
Subject: Central Sands (WI) Wind Erosion Control Pilot Project
X-Listprocessor-Version: 6.0c -- ListProcessor by Anastasios Kotsikonas
Content-Length: 5300
X-Lines: 98
Status: RO

In response to your request about wind erosion research . . .

The Central Sands Wind Erosion Control Project is a six-year pilot project
designed to address wind erosion problems in a 5-county irrigated vegetable
growing region in central Wisconsin.  Major economic crops in the region are
potatoes, snap beans, peas, and sweet corn.  Other important crops are
birdseed millet, cucumbers, malting barley, carrots, mint, strawberries,
field corn, and soybeans.  

Many people are surprised that Wisconsin has a wind erosion problem.  As the
Wisconsin Magazine of History reported (The Wisconsin Dust Bowl, Spring 1990,
p. 175-176) using quotes from the Stevens Point Journal, May 10, 1934 . . .

	To Central Wisconsin the storm brought plumes of dust that sliced through
the stems of young corn and potatoes like a new scythe.  It buried stubby
alfalfa beneath soil that may have blown from across the continent or from
the next county.  It undermined oats and beans, flung them into a roadside
ditch, or lifted them all the way to the Atlantic.  "You should have seen the
dust," said Adams County farmer George Romell.  "It buried the fence row like
snow."

	"Peas, soybeans, oats -- it just whipped them." recalled Ted Jensen of Buena
Vista in Portage County.  "We had sand up to here," he said, bending to point
at his knees.  Florence Isherwood of Plover looked out of her farmhouse
window and couldn't see the barn fifty yards away.  Her husband Raymond did
no farm work that day but sat with the family behind windows and doors
tightly shut to keep out the dust."

The problem persists today.

The project was developed under the auspices of the Golden Sands Resource
Conservation and Development Area and the Land Conservation Committees in the
five counties.  It is funded by the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture,
Trade and Consumer Protection and brings together resources from the
University of Wisconsin and the private Wisconsin Potato and Vegetable
Growers Association.  The project was initiated in 1990 and will end this
December.

Project activities include:
1.	Conservation Tillage Demonstrations.  These on-farm demonstrations are
designed to encourage growers to develop their own conservation tillage
systems and test them side-by-side with their traditional system.  Project
staff follow the on-farm plots, checking for differences between conventional
and analyzing each system for wind erosion control, productivity, and
profitability.  There have been about 50 plots so far on potatoes, snap
beans, peas, sweet corn, and millet.  The results are published each year and
sent to all growers and processors in the region. We are working on a
cumulative summary.

2.	Conservation Credit.  A $5.00/acre/year property tax credit is provided to
those landowners who implement wind erosion control practices outlined for
the Project.  Conservation Credit activity takes place in three target
townships.  It has been very successful with participation growing each year.
 However, this sort of credit program is not popular politically given the
tight budgets we have today.

3.	Information and Education.  Numerous activities include Conservation
Tillage Field Days, Windbreak Establishment Field Days, brochures and
booklets, articles in industry publications, one-on-one and small group
meetings, various conferences on special topics (i.e. Windbreak Technology
Conference and Windbreaks, Roads, and Utilities Conference), presentations
and tours to special groups in the region and throughout North America.

4.	Research
	a.	Identified and described missing technical information that growers and
technical people noted were barriers to wind erosion control.  Tried to find
researchers and financial resources to address these issues.
	b.	Residue Measurement including number of samples needed per field and
standing residue measurement (Bubenzer, UW-Madison, & Johnson, UW-Stevens
Point)
	c.	Cover Crops including specie selection and establishment dates (Bubenzer,
UW-Madison)
	d.	Windbreak Inventory & Design (David, Brush, Rhyner, & Greil, UW-Stevens
Point) including multispecies windbreaks
	e.	Wind Erosion Prediction System Validation Site (Hurley, Bubenzer,
UW-Madison, USDA Agricultural Research Service) establishment and maintenance
	f.	Windbreak Establishment Research (Klish, Adams County Land Conservation
Department)
	g.	Wind Erosion Impacts on Water Quality (Oberhofer and Shaw, UW-Stevens
Point)

The project is staffed by two full-time people, two student interns and 1-3
Limited Term Employees each year.  Eric G. Hurley (that's me), Wind Erosion
Control Specialist, is the project manager and runs the conservation tillage
work.  George Greil, Wind Erosion Control Planner, runs the conservation
credit program and specializes in the windbreaks.

We are putting together a "Wind Erosion Control in Wisconsin"  handbook of
wind erosion technology.  We will also be putting on a two-day conference
late this winter covering all the ideas developed over the last six years of
the project.

Funding for next year is insecure.  We are attempting to put together funds
from state, local, and private sources.

Contact person is Eric G. Hurley, Wind Erosion Control Specialist, Golden
Sands RC&D, 1516 Church Street, Stevens Point, WI  54481.  Tel. 715/346-1334.


