Received: from bottom.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu by DEPAUW.EDU
 (PMDF V4.3-10 #9248) id <01HW4JKVQKTS0000GP@DEPAUW.EDU>; Fri,
 06 Oct 1995 16:08:20 -0500 (EST)
Received: by bottom.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (8.6.10/4.940426)
 id RAA14094; Fri, 6 Oct 1995 17:05:09 -0400
Date: Fri, 06 Oct 1995 17:05:09 -0400 (EDT)
From: Keith D Markman <kmarkman@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu>
Subject: Running thmes in the work of Schuette - an essay by Lionel Trilling
To: schuette@DEPAUW.EDU
Cc: kmarkman@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu, tcapote@coldblood.com
Message-id: <199510062105.RAA14094@bottom.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu>
MIME-version: 1.0
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL23]
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-transfer-encoding: 7bit
Content-length: 4122

     Rob Schuette's early work - the "Brown" period - asserts an existential 
and absurdist manifesto: The juxtaposition of obscure and incongruous is 
funny.  Body parts, especially the anus - because of it's obvious viscerality -
and the spleen - because of its functionality and monosyllabic obscurity - are 
common images in his work, as is a more general obssession with nudity, 
especially when the nudity is displayed at inappropriate times and uncalled for
situations.  His humor strikes a raw nerve, exploring heretofore unvisited 
territory, forcing the listener to take a dark journey into the twisted caverns
of a seemingly tortured and unstable mind.

     But, is he truly unstable?  Critics fall on both sides of the fence of 
what has become perhaps the key question in modern humorist analysis?  It is 
the opinion of this writer that Schuette has merely been "taking us for a ride"
- that what comes across as certain evidence of a clinical syndrome is actually
a clever and stable mind, carefully formulating it's next absurdist foray into 
madness.  Consider the running themes in his work - used "schtick", to put it 
more coarsely.  A review of his works finds over 300 references to the spleen, 
400 scenarios involving nudity, and 780 uses of various expletives paired with 
violent or unfortunate occurrences to obscure persons.  Indeed, perhaps 
Schuette has come to over rely on his "schtick" - a recent review of the works 
that comprise is later "clean, mean, and void" period see a continued use of 
various themes.  For instance, an obssession with the death of cats and spiders
continues to pervade his work - borne, no doubt, from prior unfortunate 
experiences with such creatures.  Indeed, the presence of these creatures in 
his works represents, no doubt, some type of Freudian transference of fear from
himself to his enthusiastic but unsuspecting audience.  However, the cathartic 
benefits that he derives from employing such themes in his work seem to be 
fairly ephemeral, as they seem to reappear in his work time and again, and yet 
again and again and again.

     The clean/mean/void period (slashes have recently been used to represent 
the fractured nature of his later work) has developed some new obssessions.  
For instance, there appears to be a new preoccupation with the obscure sport of
kickboxing, which has never really caught on as a sport to be taken seriously.
The first several times that kickboxing appeared in his work seemed to be an 
almost wistful pining for the earlier Brown period, in which obscure references
were a key component of his writings.  The Amish have also been targeted as the
focus of humor, on several occasions.  In the opinion of this critic, however, 
these references have appeared in his recent work at an almost alarming rate.  
Perhaps the best example is the continued use of habadashery as a profession to
be mocked - the obscure arts of making and selling hats is a leftover remnant 
from his Brown period, still appearing in his work today.  Was Schuette's 
father a habadasher?  Does Schuette fear hats, or merely what they represent - 
a way of cloaking the individual's appearance?  Is Schuette hiding from his 
schtick?  Or, is he trying to show us, through his schtick, that we are all 
trying to cloak ourselves - that life is, in a sense, an elaborate masquerade 
party, buffetted with self-presentation and self-promotion, eschewing any real 
exposure of our true selves to the world.  Or, would Schuette be happier in 
such a world, where he can continue to lead the unsuspecting down the twisted 
morass of a cleverly perverted mind?

In sum, the work of Schuette presents us with a mass of contradictions, on 
several different levels.  Indeed, this is where the true art of his work lies.
For, it is those contradictions that make us laugh - or cringe - at the 
micro-level.  Yet, at the meta-level, it is the contradiction that Schuette, 
himself, represents, that continues to both attract and repel us, making him 
perhaps the most fascinating creature of all, worthy of our study and analysis.

Lionel Trilling
