Received: from unicorn.acs.ttu.edu (unicorn.acs.ttu.edu [129.118.2.22]) by zingg.weru.ksu.edu (8.7.1/8.7.1) with SMTP id JAA04053; Fri, 27 Oct 1995 09:51:25 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from  (localhost) by unicorn.acs.ttu.edu (5.0/SMI-4.1)
	id AA22718; Fri, 27 Oct 1995 08:52:00 -0500
Date: Fri, 27 Oct 1995 08:52:00 -0500
Errors-To: tzobeck@lubbock.ars.ag.gov
Message-Id: <309BE012@msmail.fao.org>
Errors-To: tzobeck@lubbock.ars.ag.gov
Reply-To: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Originator: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Sender: wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu
Precedence: bulk
From: "Dembner, Steve (FOD)" <Steve.Dembner@fao.org>
To: Multiple recipients of list <wind_erosion@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu>
Subject: Windbreak article for Unasylva?
X-Listprocessor-Version: 6.0c -- ListProcessor by Anastasios Kotsikonas
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 3742
X-Lines: 74
Status: RO

Dear erosion netters, 

The April 1996 issue of Unasylva, the quarterly international journal of 
forestry and forest industries published by FAO, will focus on "forest 
influences", i.e., the role of forests and trees in moderating and 
ameliorating the environment at local and global levels. of forest products. 
The articles in the issue will cover a number of facets of the focus topic, 
and will attempt to maintain a geographic balance as well.

 As you will see from the attached list of articles/authors currently under 
consideration for the issue, one of the articles that we hoped to include in 
this issue was a focus on the local effects of windbreaks on agricultural 
crops, and our plan was to have something from the Forest Research Insitute 
of New Zealand.

Unfortunately, this article has not materialized and in doing follow-up 
background research on the World Wide Web, I came across the reference to the 
Wind Erosion Dicussion List .

So my question is whether any of  you might be able to direct me to an 
unpublished or recently published but not widely distributed paper that 
might, with some editorial adaptation, be appropriate for inclusion in this 
issue of Unasylva. The idea of the article would be to make the case about 
the role of trees as windbreaks in agricultural cropping by focuing on a 
single or limited number of studies.  In a perfect world, the article 
would focus on at least some research conducted in the third world and would 
be co-authored by a developing country author.

To complicate the whole matter, we are terribly behind deadline. There 
certainly is not time for any new writing. We would need something in more or 
less finished form, and within the next ten days or so.

So, can any of you pull a rabbit out of the hat for me? Or maybe even a 
squirrel? Please note, I have contacted WERU directly as well.

I would very much appreciate any suggestions you might be able to offer.

  Yours sincerely,
   
  Stephen A. Dembner
  Editor, Unasylva


Unasylva No. 185, publication date April 1996, copy deadline mid-October 1995
"Forest influences"

List of articles/authors currently under consideration

This issue will focus on"forest influences", or the role of forests and trees 
in moderating and ameliorating the environment at local and global levels. 
Specific articles/authors currently under consideration include:

fSan article dealing with the latest information on the role of forests in the 
global warming debate. Confirmed author Dr. Sandra BrownUS EPA, Corvalis, 
Oregon;
fSa research-oriented article on the role of watershed management in 
ameliorating local or regional environment. Confirmed author M. Meunier, 
CEMAGREF, France;
fSan article focusing on local effects of windbreaks on agricultural crops - 
focus on New Zealand. Author to be identified;
fSan article focusing on dryland issues related to forest influences, focusing 
on constraints that have limited the success of greenbelt development. 
Confirmed author S. Murray, USA;
fSan article debunking myths related to forest influences. The point of this 
article would be to set the record straight regarding some of the roles or 
potential erroneously attributed to forests and trees. For example, the 
"Amazon as the lungs of the world". Input to be solicited from multiple 
sources and coordinated by Unasylva editor;
fSan article dealing with the role of trees in nutrient recycling. Proposed 
author Mr Pedro Sanchez, Executive Director of ICRAF;
fSan article dealing with psychological influences - for example, some 
interesting studies that indicate that hospital patients who could see trees 
from their windows recovered more quickly than those who could not. Author to 
be identifed.

