Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA28578; Thu, 25 Jul 1996 10:34:41 -0400
Received: by library.berkeley.edu; (5.65/1.1.8.2/29Oct94-1209AM)
	id AA26256; Thu, 25 Jul 1996 07:32:38 -0700
Date: Thu, 25 Jul 1996 07:32:37 -0700 (PDT)
From: Roy Tennant <rtennant@library.berkeley.edu>
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
Subject: Re: Re> Re: Powerbook question
In-Reply-To: <9607251407.AA28063@vega.lib.ncsu.edu>
Message-Id: <Pine.OSF.3.90.960725073042.21079A-100000@library.berkeley.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

Yes, we were unfortunately down from Monday evening PST (with some *very* 
buggy things happening beforehand) to Tuesday midday. We are definitely 
back up now. Thanks for your patience.

On the other thread, I usually have at least three applications going at 
any one time and there isn't any reason why one of them can't be 
CU-SeeMe (except, of course, that I need to get a camera! I feel a color 
QuickCam in my future...)
Roy

On Thu, 25 Jul 1996, Eric Lease Morgan wrote:

> > Has something happened to the reflector at sunsite.berkeley.edu? I 
> > couldn't connect either monday nor tuesday. And vega.lib.ncsu.edu seems 
> > empty most of the time, too...
> 
> I believe the entire sunsite.berkeley.edu machine was down all day Monday and 
> Tuesday. I believe things are up and running again.
> 
> 
> -- 
> Eric Lease Morgan
> NCSU Libraries
> http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/morgan/
> 
>From john@colosys.net  Tue Jul 30 14:48:50 1996
Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA26879; Tue, 30 Jul 1996 14:48:50 -0400
Received: by tripath.colosys.net; (5.65/1.1.8.2/28Apr95-0930AM)
	id AA00261; Tue, 30 Jul 1996 12:41:32 -0600
Date: Tue, 30 Jul 1996 12:41:31 -0600 (MDT)
From: John Campbell <john@tripath.colosys.net>
Subject: Re: downloadable
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.91.960724140306.2827A-100000@darkstar.rsa.lib.il.us>
Message-Id: <Pine.3.89.9607301250.A32492-0100000@tripath.colosys.net>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

i bought a connectix quikcam from global computer supply for $99.  uses a 
parallel port.  took about 5 minutes to get going.  if you want an 
address for global, drop a note.

john

!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*
john campbell
pathfinder library system
grand junction, colorado
john@colosys.net
           *****
in the war of ideas, librarians
are the arms dealers for both sides
!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*


On Wed, 24 Jul 1996, Lori Bell wrote:

> Can anyone give me the specifications for a video camera to work with 
> CUSeeMe?  Can you recommend a place to purchase this?  The price I got on 
> a digital video camera is $859 and on a video camera with standard NTSC 
> output is $495.  I wonder if this is typical or not.  Any information you 
> could provide would be very helpful and appreciated.  Thanks.
> 
>From eric_morgan@ncsu.edu  Thu Aug  1 15:52:35 1996
Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA07117; Thu, 1 Aug 1996 15:52:35 -0400
Message-Id: <9608011952.AA07117@vega.lib.ncsu.edu>
Received: from 152.1.139.102 ([152.1.139.102]) by ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu with SMTP;
          Thu, 1 Aug 1996 15:50:13 -0400 (EDT)
From: Eric Lease Morgan <eric_morgan@ncsu.edu>
Date: Thu, 1 Aug 1996 15:49:21 -0400
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
Subject: report of stage #1
X-Mailer: MailConnect v1.2

See You See a A Librarian - Report on Stage #1

This reports on the See You See A Librarian Project's first month of operation. 



Connections

During the first month of the project more at least 300 connections were made 
to either the reflector at sunsite.berkeley.edu or vega.lib.ncsu.edu. There 
were certainly more connections than this, but I was unable to consistently 
extract the number of users from the sunsite reflector.log file.

Of the connections made, everybody, with the exception of one person, made more 
than one connection to the reflectors. One person connected more 115 times 
("Thank you!")

The most popular connection days were July 8th - 15th, and very few connections 
were made later in the month. Generally speaking, more connections were made in 
the afternoon (EST) than other times of the day.

Some of the people connecting were from the United Kingdom and Mexico, but the 
majority of people were from the United States.


Hardware/Software Issues

The people who connected to the reflectors generally were islands of 
technology. In other words, these were people who had the necessary hardware 
and software to do "full" CU-SeeMe. It seems the necessary resources to do 
complete video and audio I/O are few and far between in libraries. Even here at 
NCSU no librarians have video cameras; the video cameras in use here at the 
Libraries are my personal property.

Additionally, when people did have the necessary hardware, audio I/O was 
usually stumbling block. On the other hand, after a bit of tweaking, this looks 
like it can be resolved.


Library Issues

When discussions did take place on the reflectors, the consensus was that this 
technology could be used effectively to enhance library services. Some of the 
work being done at the University of Michigan demonstrates this as fact. Some 
people were going to use CU-SeeMe as a training medium. Others were going to 
use it as a supplement to reference services.

On the other hand, an informal discussion with non-librarians (only three 
people), demonstrated that there is no perceived need for such a service. After 
explaining the concept to these people, the common response was, "But I can use 
a telephone for that." Unfortunately, these people did not seem to understand 
the subtleties of the reference interview and non-verbal communication.


Future Directions

Despite the lower than expected response to the See You See A Librarian 
Project, it will continue into its second month. The recent flurry of postings 
to Web4Lib concerning the organization of Internet resources gave me and idea. 
I am trying to put together a debate over the Internet using CU-SeeMe. So far I 
have tried twice to get people to participate in this debate, but the response 
has been the same, "I don't have the necessary hardware and software to do 
CU-SeeMe."

It seems two things are apparent so far:

  1. Many people don't have the necessary equipment to use this technology, 
yet.
  2. CU-SeeMe may be a solution looking for a problem.
  
"CU online!"



-- 
Eric Lease Morgan
NCSU Libraries
http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/morgan/
>From morgan@ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu  Mon Aug 19 14:07:41 1996
Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA04127; Mon, 19 Aug 1996 14:07:41 -0400
Received: from homam.lib.ncsu.edu by ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu with SMTP;
          Mon, 19 Aug 1996 14:05:07 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric Lease Morgan" <morgan>
Message-Id: <960819140559.ZM983596@homam.lib.ncsu.edu>
Date: Mon, 19 Aug 1996 14:05:56 -0400
Reply-To: eric_morgan@ncsu.edu
X-Mailer: Z-Mail for Macintosh (3.2.2 19Jun95)
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
Subject: InterNIC "interview"
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


I was recently contacted by a representative of InterNIC, the folks who
help administrate Internet domain names. They wanted some information
about the See You See A Librarian project for an upcoming newsletter
article. They sent me some questions and I answered them. These
questions and answers are below for your late night reading enjoyment.


=====


1. Can you provide a brief outline of the project?

	* What gave you the idea for See You See A Librarian?
	* How did you go about implementing the project?
	* What type of support do you have for the project (i.e. funding,
resources, etc.) and where did/does it come from?
	* How many people are involved on the management and operation of the
project - from your institution? from other institutions?

Around Labor Day I started asking myself how effective would the
CU-SeeMe technology be in enhancing library services. Now-a-days, more
and more real library work can be done by patrons without every coming
to the library. Yet, there are times when a librarian's help is still
needed to truely satisfy a patron's information need. It is a well known
fact that communication is accomplished in many ways. Telephone
communications offer immediacy but lack essencial non-verbal aspects.
Email mandates concise descriptions of problems. Face-to-face
communication, even at a distance, could reduce the limitations of the
email and telephone mediums. I began wondering whether or not
face-to-face communications using some thing like CU-SeeMe would improve
the ways librarians and their patrons could solve this problem, namely
the problem of assisting patrons from remote distances. 

In an effort to learn more about CU-SeeMe, I used my desktop computer
and started trying to connect to remote CU-SeeMe reflectors. To my
dismay, most times, when connecting to these reflectors, I found nobody
there. "How am I suppose to explore this technology, if I can't see
anybody." Consequently, I decided to set up my own reflector(s) and
formulate a plan. The plan, as described at
http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/~emorgan/see-a-librarian/, has three parts:

  1. Feasibility - this part is/was intended to see how many librarians
have the necessary hardware and software to do CU-SeeMe.
  2. Librarians on Librarianship - this part intends to focus any
discussion using CU-SeeMe on the issues of librarianship
  3. Librarians Fostering Knowledge - this part was intended to explore
the feasility of providing reference services to the Internet patrons
using CU-Seeme.

Finally, I gave my project a cute name, See You See A Librarian, and
spammed hosts of library-related mailing list describing the project.

The project has the support of both the administration at the NCSU
Libraries where I am employed and people who administrate the Sunsite
computer at the University of California-Berkeley (Roy Tenent). Thus,
there are only a small handful of people involved in the management of
the project, maybe five.

The CU-SeeMe technology supports three types of communication:
one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many. To facilitate one-to-many and
many-to-many communications there needs to be an intermediary piece of
software called a "reflector." This program "reflects" CU-SeeMe
connections to other people who are connected to the reflector(s).
Furthermore, reflectors can be "connected" to each other so people
connected to one reflector can see the people reflected to the other
reflectors. There are two reflectors used in this project. One is
located at the NCSU Libraries (vega.lib.ncsu.edu) and the other is at
UC-Berkeley (sunsite.berkeley.edu).



2. Can you provide a brief statistical snapshot?

	* Number of institutions participating
	* Number of individuals participating
	* Demography of participants (i.e. trends relating to geography, size or
type of institution, etc.)
	* Are any of the participants NOT libraries or librarians?

Once the project got started in July, anybody with the necessary
hardware and software was encouraged to participate. During the first
month of the project more at least 300 connections were made to either
the reflector at sunsite.berkeley.edu or vega.lib.ncsu.edu. There were
certainly more connections than this, but I was unable to consistently
extract the number of users from the sunsite reflector.log file.

Of the connections made, everybody, with the exception of one person,
made more than one connection to the reflectors. One person connected
more 115 times.

The most popular connection days were July 8th - 15th, and very few
connections were made later in the month. Generally speaking, more
connections were made in the afternoon (Eastern Time) than other times
of the day.

Some of the people connecting were from the United Kingdom and Mexico,
but the majority of people were from the United States.

Based on my observations all the participants were librarians, people
who worked in libraries, or people who worked for the library community
(consultants). Of the librarians, the mix was evenly divided between
academic, special, and state-supported libraries. The sizes of the
insitutions represented by the participants in not known.



3. Can you offer an analytical look at the use of the technology in the
library field?

	* What do you see as potential areas of use for the technology in the
library field?
	* What do you perceive to be the major drawbacks to using the technology
- for the library field?
	* What do you perceive as major advantages?

The advantages and disadvantages of interactive video conferencing
(CU-SeeMe) in the library field are pretty much the same advantages and
disadvantages when applied to other communication endevours. For
example, CU-SeeMe requires special hardware and software in order to
work, specifically video technology (a video camera) and audio
technology (a microphone) as well as a high-speed Internet connection.
While the Internet connection is becoming less and less of a barrier, it
seems that the video/audio is the major stumbling block. Many library
administrations do not support librarians with this sort of hardware. At
the same time, this is understandable since no real uses of this
technology have been readily demonstrated.

There are a couple of other problems with the technology. For example,
CU-SeeMe makes people conscious of their appearence to others. This
sometimes makes people shy and not want to participate. In the other
extreame, there exist on the Internet exhibitionists who intrude into
CU-SeeMe reflectors and detract from the reflectors's intended use.
Additionally, it is quite possible to impersonate somebody else using
CU-SeeMe and commit slanderous acts.

On the other hand, if the necessary hardware where many universally
available, then video conferencing could be used in numerous ways in
Library Land. The most obvious example from the patron's perspective is
for reference queries. There are many times when it would be helpful to
speak to a librarian. While telephone communications are useful, video
conferencing would transmit the non-verbal aspects of the reference
interview process and quite possibly improve the service. Since
telephones are not available throughout libraries, video conferencing
could extend reference services to the patrons in the "stacks" if a
wireless network were available. Unfortunately, the few patrons I have
talked to concering these sorts of ideas have not been impressed. The
common response is, "I don't need CU-SeeMe to ask a reference question.
I have a telephone for that." These people do not understand the
sublties of the reference interview.

>From a library-only point of view, CU-SeeMe could be used to facilitate
the training of library staff in places where travel is difficult. For
example the state library system of Florida is trying the use of
CU-SeeMe for just this purpose. Since the state is so extensively rural,
the state librarians are finding the use of CU-SeeMe as a way to provide
in-services to remote librarians.

Another alternative is to use CU-SeeMe as a medium for live debates. For
example, about a month ago there was a raging debate on a popular
library-related mailing list. The topic of the debate was whether or not
to catalog Internet resources. Some advocated the idea and others did
not. I invited four people to express their opinions concerning the
topic structured as a formal debate. While the debate takes place,
others can "lurk" to watch the debate. This concept would have worked
for many many people even if they did not have a video camera.
Unfortunately, again, the people I contacted to debate the issued did
not have the necessary equipment to do CU-SeeMe.


4. Can you comment on the library field's "readiness" for CU-SeeMe and
other videoconferencing and collaboration technologies?

	* Where are we (the library profession) now?
	* Where do we need to be to be, in terms of both the technology itself
and the skills base, to really employ this technology to our advantage?
	* What needs to happen to get us to that point?

I believe the library community is ready for this sort of technology. I
believe all librarians would see the inherent possibilities of CU-SeeMe.
At the same time, libraries are notoriously under funded; libraries are
not money making organizations. Consequently, the budgets of libraries
are limited and currently do not allow of very many experiments like
video cameras. Similarly, like everybody else, libraries feel under
staffed and to bring on new services like the use of CU-SeeMe will mean
the elimination of other services. "What services do we stop doing in
order to provide this new one?"

In order to make the use of CU-SeeMe a reality in any institution I
believe a number of things need to happen. First, there must be a
commitment on the library administration to purchase the necessary
hardware. Second, the administration of the institution the library
services must commit to making the necessary hardware available to it
constituencies. For example, video cameras could be made standard
equipment in college computing labs. Next either more staff are needed
to provide the newer services or other services have to eliminated. Once
this happens, libraries could regularly staff the "CU-SeeMe Stations"
just as they staff the reference desk and field remote reference
queries.



5. It appears that your project is initially aimed at providing an
interactive platform for professional collaboration in the library
field. How receptive have librarians been to the idea of using the
technology for this purpose?

	* How has the interactive nature of the technology enhanced the
collaboration process over, say, simple email exchanges?

In general, librarian have been positive to the use of this technology,
but the vast majority of them do not have the necessary hardware to
participate. Additionally, even when given the opportunity to borrow the
necessary hardware they are sometimes reluctant to participate since they
have little time for experimentation.

At this time, there is not enough experience from the project to know
whether or not the "technology enhanced the collaboration process over,
say, simple email exchanges."



6.  There can be little doubt that the Internet, particularly tools such
as electronic mail and distributed information systems such as the World
Wide Web, have had tremendous import for the nature of library work, how
libraries conduct their business and carry out their missions, what that
business and that mission is, and what is consequently required of the
professionals in the field.  Do you see CU-SeeMe and videoconferencing
in general as having the same type of impact?  Why or why not?

While desktop video conferencing has the potential of enhancing library
services quite a bit, I do not see desktop video significantly
transforming library services. Libraries are about collecting,
organizing, archiving, disseminating, and sometimes evaluating
information. The use of CU-SeeMe or some other video conferencing
technology only effects one aspect of those services (the dissemination
process).

Furthermore, I would personally like to see the realm of library
services move from information mediation to knowledge mediation. The
computer has enabled more and more people to acquire their own
information without the use of a library. The real skill librarians
posses is the ability to evaluate information. This evaluation process
facilitates knowledge and I would like to see librarianship move in a
more aggressive manner towards these goals.



7. What advice or suggestions would you give a library considering the
use of CU-SEEME or other videoconferencing technology to deliver
traditional library services?

If I were to implement a full scale plan to incorporate something like
CU-SeeMe into library services I would:

  1. Equip a goodly number of librarians with the necessary hardware and
software.
  2. Mandate the librarians experiement with the hardware and software for
a limited period of time knowing that new services were going to be
implemented on a specific date in the future.
  3. Advertize, advertize, and then advertize the service to the intended
beneficiaries of the service.
  4. Get the University's administration or computing center to equip
computing labs with the necessary hardware and software to do CU-SeeMe.
  5. Bring up the service on the predefined date.
  
  
In summary, I believe video conferencing can be used effectivly in
library settings. Unfortunately, even though librarians work in
learning/teaching/academic/exploration settings, it is difficult for
librarians to act in learning/teaching/academic/exploration modes. It is
difficult not because librarians don't have the necessary skills, but
rather there seems to little time for these sorts of activities. It may
seem oxymoronic, but change is the norm. All insitutions must think
about change and how to cope with it. Until this happens, innovations
will not be explored with very much rigor until they are thrust upon us
by outside forces. Hopefully we, as well as other professions, can learn
to adjust.



-- 
Eric Lease Morgan
NCSU Libraries
http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/morgan/
>From morgan@ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu  Tue Aug 20 08:58:56 1996
Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA10683; Tue, 20 Aug 1996 08:58:56 -0400
Received: from homam.lib.ncsu.edu by ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu with SMTP;
          Tue, 20 Aug 1996 8:56:28 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric Lease Morgan" <morgan>
Message-Id: <960820085721.ZM6387@homam.lib.ncsu.edu>
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 1996 08:57:19 -0400
Reply-To: eric_morgan@ncsu.edu
X-Mailer: Z-Mail for Macintosh (3.3.1 27Mar96)
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
Subject: debate
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


In order to fulfill my self-imposed requirements of Stage #2 of the See
You See A Librarian project (Librarians on Librarianship), I have tried
to coordinate a debate. In this debate each side of an argument would be
given 10 minutes to state their case and 5 minutes for rebuttal. During
the debate others, like yourselves, could lurk and watch. Thus, this
sort of use of CU-SeeMe would provide immediate responses to issues and
would not require people to write their responses. At the same time, the
person with the more carisma may seem to present their idea better.

I propose(d) the debate be on some "hot" topic of the day such as
cataloging Internet resources. I have contacted four different people
that I identified as possible debators, but alas, none of these people
had the necessary hardware and software to do full CU-SeeMe.

Can you think of a "hot" topic to debate, AND can you think of some
people who may be able to defend either side of the topic's issues?


-- 
Eric Lease Morgan
NCSU Libraries
http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/morgan/
>From morgan@ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu  Tue Aug 20 09:05:19 1996
Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA10938; Tue, 20 Aug 1996 09:05:19 -0400
Received: from homam.lib.ncsu.edu by ncsulib5.lib.ncsu.edu with SMTP;
          Tue, 20 Aug 1996 8:59:21 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric Lease Morgan" <morgan>
Message-Id: <960820090015.ZM6387@homam.lib.ncsu.edu>
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 1996 09:00:12 -0400
Reply-To: eric_morgan@ncsu.edu
X-Mailer: Z-Mail for Macintosh (3.3.1 27Mar96)
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
Subject: Stage #3
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


I am seriously thinking of cancelling Stage #3 of the Project
(Librarians Fostering Knowledge) because I believe there is not a
critical mass of librarians who own the necessary hardware and software
to do CU-SeeMe.

What do you thinque?


-- 
Eric Lease Morgan
NCSU Libraries
http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/morgan/
>From pzilius@umich.edu  Tue Aug 20 10:00:36 1996
Received: by vega.lib.ncsu.edu; id AA11400; Tue, 20 Aug 1996 10:00:36 -0400
Received: from localhost by tempest.rs.itd.umich.edu (8.7.5/2.2)
	id JAA06473; Tue, 20 Aug 1996 09:56:39 -0400 (EDT)
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 1996 09:56:39 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Pamela M. Zilius" <pzilius@umich.edu>
X-Sender: pzilius@tempest.rs.itd.umich.edu
Reply-To: "Pamela M. Zilius" <pzilius@umich.edu>
To: see-a-librarian-l@vega.lib.ncsu.edu
Subject: Stage #3
Message-Id: <Pine.SOL.3.95.960820095337.5566B-100000@tempest.rs.itd.umich.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII


I think that if you posted "hours" for this discussion to happen, say
between 3-6 EST Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, a lot more people would be
likley to sign on.

In my case, I'm too busy to sign on all the time and hope someone else
comes along. But if I knew other people would probably be there, I'd not
only sign myself on, I'd advertise it to others so that people could come
to our high-tech lab and do it too. Knowing something would be going on
would make them more likely to come.

I think it's a great idea, and please keep it running. In the future you
might look at a purposeful distribution of necessary software/hardware
across several institutions' libraries, along with troubleshooting and
installation help. That might prove your point that people would use it if
the hardware/software were available.

good luck!

-Pam Zilius-Careaga

------------------------------------------
Pamela Zilius-Careaga	pzilius@umich.edu
Media Union/Science Libraries
University of Michigan	313-763-4837
------------------------------------------

 On Tue, 20 Aug 1996, Eric LeaseMorgan wrote:

> 
> I am seriously thinking of cancelling Stage #3 of the Project
> (Librarians Fostering Knowledge) because I believe there is not a
> critical mass of librarians who own the necessary hardware and software
> to do CU-SeeMe.
> 
> What do you thinque?
> 
> 
> -- 
> Eric Lease Morgan
> NCSU Libraries
> http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/morgan/
> 




