Source,Reference
"The tumor components of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) are composed of immune microenvironment of extracellular matrix, fibroblasts, endothelial cells and immune cells together with a minority of malignant cells. ",胰腺导管腺癌（PDAC）的肿瘤成分由细胞外基质、成纤维细胞、内皮细胞和免疫细胞组成的免疫微环境及其中的少量恶性肿瘤细胞共同组成。
"The failure of the therapeutic measures, such as chemotherapy, targeted therapy and immunotherapy, has been linked to the specific immune microenvironment of pancreatic cancer. ",化疗、靶向治疗和免疫治疗等一系列治疗措施的失败均与胰腺癌特殊的免疫微环境相关。
"By analyzing the components of immune microenvironment of pancreatic cancer, the mechanism of various components in pancreatic cancer such as highly immunosuppressive, hypoxic and connective tissue hyperplasia can be clarified. ",通过分析胰腺癌免疫微环境的成分，明确各种成分对胰腺癌形成高度免疫抑制、乏氧和促进结缔组织增生等方面的影响，可以进一步了解其在胰腺癌发生及发展中的影响。
"New efforts in single-cell profiling will enable a better understanding of the composition of the microenvironment in primary and metastatic PDAC, as well as an understanding of how the microenvironment may respond to novel therapeutic approaches.",同时，通过对肿瘤单细胞进行分析研究，可以更好地了解PDAC中免疫微环境的组成特点，以及在目前胰腺癌新治疗措施中免疫微环境的变化特点。
"In the literature examining neighbourhood effects on educational outcomes, the socialisation mechanism is usually investigated by looking at the association between neighbourhood characteristics and educational attainment. ",在关于教育成果的邻里效应的研究文献中，社会化机制的研究方式通常是考察邻里特征与教育获得度之间的关联。
"The step in between, that adolescents actually internalise educational norms held by residents, is often assumed. ",这种方式往往预设了中间的一道逻辑：青少年实际上内化了居民的教育准则。
We attempt to fill this gap by looking at how the internalisation of educational norms (commitments) is influenced by neighbourhoods' immigrant concentration. ,我们尝试通过考察邻里的移民聚集度如何影响教育准则（投入度）的内化，来填补这道缺口。
"We investigate this process for both migrant and native youth, as both groups might be influenced differently by immigrant concentrations. ",我们针对移民青年和本地青年分别考察了这一进程，因为这两个群体可能在不同程度上受到移民聚集度的影响。
"To test our hypothesis we used longitudinal panel data with five waves (N = 4255), combined with between-within models which control for a large portion of potential selection bias.",为验证我们的设论，我们采用了带五个波段的纵向面板数据 (N = 4255)，并结合组间-组内模型，把大量潜在选择偏差作为控制变量。
