Received: from vsmtp3.tin.it (vsmtp3alice.tin.it [212.216.176.143])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id PAA04967
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 2 Mar 1999 21:26:49 -0500 (EST)
Received: from pswm3.cp.tin.it (192.168.70.17) by vsmtp3.tin.it (7.2.072.1)
        id 44625021004BEF46; Tue, 2 Mar 1999 23:20:35 +0200
Message-ID: <10b341da64c.mrswilliamskokou_kokou@virgilio.it>
Date: Tue, 2 Mar 1999 22:19:03 +0100 (GMT+01:00)
From: Mrs Williams Kokou <mrswilliamskokou_kokou@virgilio.it>
Reply-To: mrswilliams_kokou002@yahoo.co.in
Subject: My Greeting to you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;charset="UTF-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Originating-IP: 193.220.26.35

Christan Penticostal Mission International
Trenchville,
Abidjan,
Cote 
D'Ivoire
West Africa.

 Dearest Beloved One,

Calvary Greeting to you 
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Perhaps this would go down as 
the most difficult letter i will ever  attempt to right in my life.

I 
am not sure that it will adequately conveys the remorse I feel at this 
moment how do I begin my story? How do I tell this story without 
shedding tears Tears of sorrow Oh God I think you for giving me this 
opportunity to air my view and to share this story with some one.I am 
Mrs.  Williams Kokou  from Ivory Coast. I was married to Late Mr 
Wiliams  Kokou who was a contractor with the government of Cote 
D'Ivoire before he died after few days in the hospital.The doctor said 
his death was as a result of poison.

We were married for so many years 
with two small children a girl of 4yrs and a baby boy of 1 year.Before 
his death we were both born again Christian.

When my late husband was 
alive he deposited the sum of $14.500 Million with a Bank in Cote D 
lvoire. Presently this money is still in the custody of the Bank in 
Cote D lvoire. Recently, my Doctor told me that it is very likely i 
will die within the next nine months due to cancer problem. Having 
known my condition I decided to donate this fund to a church,
organization or good person thatwill utilize this money the way I am 
going to instruct here in.

I want a church,organization or good person 
that will use this fund for orphanages, widows and other people that 
need help and also propagating the word of God and to endeavor that the 
house of God is maintained.The Bible made us to understand that"Blessed 
is the hand that giveth". l took this decision because I  have two 
children who are still small and that will inherit this money later in 
life through the care of a good God fearing Gardian and  my husband 
relatives are not Christians not even good at all because they are the 
one that responsible for the death of my husband in other to have all 
my late husband's prperty and I don't want my husband's efforts to be 
used by those that conspired for his death.I don't want them to know 
about this development and l know that With God all things are 
possible  This is why I am taking this decision.Though it was very 
painful to hear this kind of news from my  doctor but I am not afraid 
of deathbecause I know where I am going. I know that I am going to be 
in the bosom of the Lord.

I don't think there is need for any 
telephone  communicatin this regard because of my health  but the 
important thing to me is for you to do what  i will require you in this 
regard. As soon as I receive your reply I shall give you the contact of 
the Bank in Cote d' lvoire.I will also  issue a letter of authorization 
to the bank that will  prove you the present beneficiary of this money. 
I also want you, church or the organization to always pray for me 
because the lord is my only shepherd.

My happiness is that I lived a 
life of a worthy  Christian. Whoever that Wants to serve the Lord must 
serve him in spirit and Truth.Please always be  prayerful all through 
your life.Any delay in your reply will give me room in sourcing another 
good person,church,organization for this same purpose.

Please assure 
me that you will act accordingly as I  Stated here in. Hoping to 
receive your response immedaitely.

Thanks and Remain blessed in the 
Lord.

l remain yours sister in Christ.
Mrs. Wiliams Kokou
