Received: from tefku7.ouama.comcast.net (cpe-70-114-255-84.houston.res.rr.com [70.114.255.84])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.8.7/ML970927) with ESMTP id OAA12413
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Sat, 5 Sep 1998 08:32:30 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Seymour" <neary.moslandera0e@gmail.com>
To: <handyboard@media.mit.edu>
Subject: stok recommendations on short-term trading  Recent stuff
Date: Sat, 5 Sep 1998 03:33:05 +0600
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: 5OCUxAo5gZjSNDTyFgFzn5S5rHcE5RwnKClV
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Measurements and stok recommendations from top analysts stok market tendencies and booming predictions 

Enter: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!

Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:
• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.
CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split

China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY
China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.

Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.
Market status measurements and booming tendencies Mutual benefit by reliable stok information Movements of stok and market tendencies analyzed Growth stok picks and stok recommendations 






More earning opportunities with expert stok analysis Expert stok suggestions and recommendations 


 It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive The higher you climb up the ladder, the more people can see your arse  It is what is in the mind when sober, that comes out of the mouth when drunk  A man is at his tallest when he stoops to help a child. No great genius has ever existed without some touch of madness  A closed mouth gathers no feet.  Goodness is better than beauty Like the measles, love is most dangerous when it comes late in life But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof. Procrastination is the thief of time A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. One of these days is none of these days Absence makes the heart go wander. You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar He that plants a tree plants for posterity Fish and cast-net nah friend. Love sees no faults. Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere  You cannot lose what you never had There is a time to speak and a time to be silent Don't byte off more than you can view.. Friends are made by many acts - and lost by only one  To err is human, to forgive divine Abundance, like want, ruins many. The world is full of willing people: some willing to work and some willing to let them  From the sweetest wine the tartest vinegar To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity. Orange yellow but yuh nah know if he sweet. The price of liberty is eternal vigilance To many people in a dustbin means there not much room in side Lil ah sick, big a get better. On the Turf all men are equal, and under it  

