Received: from USER-NS.cowe8au.org (34.67.cm.sunflower.com [24.124.67.34])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id OAA21518
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Thu, 27 May 1999 04:24:51 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from gmail.com (gmail-smtp-in.l.google.com [64.233.183.27])
        by USER-NS.cowe8au.org (Postfix) with ESMTP id VNPLQQYWFZ
        for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Wed, 26 May 1999 23:26:12 +0600
From: "Hiram" <neary.moslandera0e@gmail.com>
To: <handyboard@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Investment time frames, stok recommendations and highlights     Hot'n'new
Date: Wed, 26 May 1999 23:26:12 +0600
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: KfzUH7iPgHCYvR7S1Y0E0HkUkxO2QIyKaqb0
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

stok analysis tools and tips meant to increase long-term profits Complete stok research information and recommendations Expert stok suggestions and recommendations More earning opportunities with expert stok analysis 

Enter: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!


Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:
• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.

CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split
China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY

China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.
Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.
Investment tips and stok recommendations helping to earn more stok market tendencies and booming predictions stok recommendations and managing solutions 









Investment tips and stok recommendations helping to earn more 





 Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance If the wind will not serve, take to the oars Seven-fifths of all people do not understand fractions When two buffalo fight, it is the grass that gets hurt! Lean liberty is better than fat slavery If Wishes Were Horses, Beggars Would Ride Look good, feel good Never say die A squirrel is just a rat with good PR. Wonders will never cease Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse  No man is an island Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in the streets. A good tree brings forth good fruit. Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst Fools seldom differ. For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck. Spare the rod and spoil the child The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Monkey dress e pickney till he spoil.	 A friend in need is a friend indeed. Cheats never prosper A man's reach should exceed his grasp. All cassava get same skin but all nah taste same way. Hate is like cancer slowly eating us away inside  A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. A good lawyer must be a great liar. Virtue is its own reward If you get a good wife you will be happy, if you get a bad one you will become a philosopher  Saying is one thing; doing another  Every step of life is a risk  Age is a very high price to pay for maturity. . 

