Received: from jcf (jcf.Psych.arizona.EDU [128.196.98.7])
	by psy1.psych.arizona.edu (8.8.7/8.8.8) with SMTP id OAA20365
	for <DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>; Wed, 2 Jun 1999 14:18:11 -0700
Message-Id: <3.0.1.32.19990602142223.006890fc@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>
Date: Wed, 02 Jun 1999 14:22:23 -0700
To: DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu
From: "Jonathan C. Forster" <jforster@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>
Subject: [DMDX] digitalVOX
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Reply-To: DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu
Sender: DMDX-owner@psy1.psych.arizona.edu
Precedence: list


  At the risk of getting snowed with responses I'm canvassing for input on
how the digital VOX should work as Ken is away in France.  Specifically,
how the issue of sensitivity should be dealt with.  The way the digital VOX
is going to work is that with the CLOCKON frame being displayed DMDX will
starting recording into a fixed length input buffer (length determined by
the subject RT timeout) and then every 100ms or so (user specifyable) it
will examine as much of that buffer that has not been examined already and
that is examinable and look for a sample that exceeds the threshold for
vocalization and when found calculate when that sample was recorded and
generate a subject RT accordingly.  It is the determination of that
threshold that is the intriuging thing.  On a conventional electronic VOX
you've usually got a dial and meter and you set the microphone apparatus up
and pretend to be a subject adjusting that threshold dial till you are sure
it can't be adjusted any better -- you're certainly almost never happy with
it, but that's a VOX for you.  DMDX is not likely to be any different
(except that you can get it to record the vocalization as well and perhaps
perform some post run refinement of RTs), however the issue is how and
where is that threshold to be set and for how long should it be remembered?
 Options include:
	(1) Only allowing it to be set in TimeDX, providing a VU display feedback
and so forth and the resulting threshold stored in the registry and all
runs of DMDX simply use that value.
	(1a) Same as (1) but having another button in the DMDX main dialog to
determine the threshold and not using TimeDX at all.
	(2) Allowing DMDX to enter a special mode similar to a testmode (ie, as
part of an item file) to determine the thresold providing a VU display &c.,
storing the resulting threshold it in the registry (using that value for
the initial setting of course).
	(3) Allowing the experimenter hit a key as DMDX is running that stops the
job till the threshold is adjusted.
	(4) A simple item file parameter and forget the registry and all that
fancy crap.

  I don't like option 3 at all, however it provides the functionality that
most closely mimics and electronic VOX.  I don't expect anyone will want
option 4.  I prefer option 1a over option 2 because it's likely that once
the threshold is set it won't need to be adjusted for individual subjects
(Ken for instance asks the subject to speak louder instead of adjusting VOX
sensitivity) and I prefer 1a over 1 so that in the event of constant casual
adjustment of the threshold being necessary users not necessarily familiar
with TimeDX won't have to run it and run the risk of inadvertantly borking
the whole display system.

-jonathan (j.c.f.)

 /"\
 \ /
  X  ASCII RIBBON CAMPAIGN - AGAINST HTML MAIL
 / \ 

  The brain works from the moment of birth until you stand up to
speak in public.



