Received: from aer (aer.media.mit.edu [18.85.1.138])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id SAA27295
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Fri, 16 Apr 1999 18:30:45 -0400 (EDT)
Message-Id: <4.1.19990416174532.00d03100@mailhost.media.mit.edu>
X-Sender: khkramer@mailhost.media.mit.edu (Unverified)
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Pro Version 4.1 
Date: Fri, 16 Apr 1999 18:29:17 -0400
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Kwin Hultman Kramer <khkramer@media.mit.edu>
Subject: readings for Tuesday
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Hi,

As scheduled, we've picked some readings that revolve around a "toys and
gender identity" theme. The readings are four, three photocopied and one
available 'lectronically.

The photocopied readings are available in stapled collectivity at the usual
place just outside the glass wall of Mitchel's office. There's a
high-heeled shoe on the cover page.

--
On paper:

Rand, Erica. "Introduction: On Our Backs, in Our Attics, on Our Minds" in
_Barbie's Queer Accessories_. Duke, 1995.

Subrahmanyam and Greenfield. "Computer Games for Girls: What Makes Them
Play" in _From Barbie to Mortal Kombat: Gender and Computer Games_, ed.
Cassel and Jenkins. MIT, 1998.

"An Interview with Brenda Laurel (Purple Moon) in in _From Barbie to Mortal
Kombat: Gender and Computer Games_, ed. Cassel and Jenkins. MIT, 1998.

On line:

Sella, Marshall. "Will a Flying Doll ... Fly?" New York Times section 6,
page 20, column 1; 12/25/94.
http://el.www.media.mit.edu/classes/play99/nyt-article.txt
--

Barbie -- whose only competition as preeminent synechdoche of American
gender theory is that 800-pound pop-culture gorilla (and maybe guerrilla,
depending on who you read) Madonna -- figures prominently in the three
photocopied essays:

Erica Rand has written an amazing little book on the complex and shifting
dialog that surrounds our favorite anorexic doll. She defines the
relationship between Mattel (producer of Barbie artifact and artifice) and
the people who purchase and play with Barbie (consumers of the former but
not always the latter) as prototypically hegemonic, that is, as
characterized by a fluid but always lopsided negotiation of social consent.
The introduction to her book explains her motivations and methodology quite
nicely.

Subrahmanyam and Greenfield give a straightforward analysis of the success
of the "Barbie Fashion Designer" software, based on their own research on
how/why girls play. (Note, "straightforward" is not meant to imply that we
should agree with the conclusions they draw, just that they explain why
they drew them in some detail.)

Branda Laurel, in an interview conducted by former Media Lab students,
explains how her own personal history and research shape the games that she
produced for now-defunct Purple Moon. Again, we should talk about whether
we find her assertions plausible, and how different we think the categories
of "research-derived-truth" and "barely-justified-assumption" really are, here.

The New York Times article recounts how Galoob designed the "Sky Dancer"
line of toys for the Christmas '94 season. The article leaves you wondering
whether the toy will be a success, implying that there is no way to predict
such things (although one would think that being the subject of a NYT
Magazine cover story helps). I'll ruin the suspense and tell you that the
Sky Dancers were a big hit, spawning a cartoon and even a spin-off <heh>
line of boy's toys.

Kwin 




