Received: from conversion-daemon.mail.hawaii.edu by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.14 (built Oct  8 2003))
 id <0IEI00801CBZLV@mail.hawaii.edu>; Tue, 05 Apr 2005 18:36:14 -1000 (HST)
Received: from [128.171.154.24] (manini.soest.hawaii.edu [128.171.154.24])
 by mail.hawaii.edu
 (iPlanet Messaging Server 5.1 HotFix 1.14 (built Oct  8 2003))
 with ESMTPS id <0IEI00HI0CSEW9@mail.hawaii.edu>; Tue,
 05 Apr 2005 18:36:14 -1000 (HST)
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 2005 18:36:14 -1000
From: Eric Firing <efiring@hawaii.edu>
Subject: Re: HDSS 50kHz ocean velocities
In-reply-to: <24a96cd261741bd0eab701c269db5d6d@ucsd.edu>
To: Rob Pinkel <rpinkel@ucsd.edu>
Cc: Jules Hummon <hummon@hawaii.edu>, rwatts@gso.uri.edu, phacker@hawaii.edu,
 rknox@ucsd.edu, kathy donohue <kdonohue@gsosun1.gso.uri.edu>,
 bo@soest.hawaii.edu, Erik Fields <fields@icess.ucsb.edu>,
 Teri Chereskin <tchereskin@ucsd.edu>, Jody Klymak <jklymak@ucsd.edu>,
 Woody Sutherland <woodys@ucsd.edu>, Michael Goldin <mgoldin@ucsd.edu>,
 talthouse@ucsd.edu
Message-id: <4253673E.2050701@hawaii.edu>
Organization: University of Hawaii
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/plain; charset=windows-1252; format=flowed
Content-transfer-encoding: 8BIT
X-Accept-Language: en-us, en
User-Agent: Mozilla Thunderbird 0.9 (X11/20041103)
References: <m2zmz6tz4e.fsf@hornby.ucsd.edu>
 <41ED6F77.9000501@rv-revelle.ucsd.edu> <m2sm4y1g9x.fsf@hornby.ucsd.edu>
 <42390CC5.1000709@hawaii.edu> <24a96cd261741bd0eab701c269db5d6d@ucsd.edu>

Rob,

To follow up on your message: Jules and I are now back from a cruise on 
the Kilo Moana; your message arrived just as we left.  Phone contact 
will certainly be helpful, but there are a few points that I would like 
to clarify first.

In earlier emails from the Revelle, Jules identified HDSS problems, from 
the standpoint of a potential user outside your group, in four categories:

1) The software and information available to a typical prospective user: 
misleading information on the web; lack of usable data access and 
processing software prior to her arrival, apart from Jody's invaluable 
file-reading and transformation routines; minimal documentation.

2) Bugs in the data acquisition system: some trivial but irritating, 
others resulting in data loss.

3) Bias inherent in estimating two horizontal velocity components from a 
2-beam sonar, given correlated pitch and heave.

4) The fundamental velocity measurements: as far as we can tell, there 
are systematic errors in the basic measurement of velocity along each 
beam at the level of a few cm/s.

The first two of these can be addressed in simple and obvious ways.  The 
third is not present in the 140, and will vanish from the 50 when you 
get the two new beams installed.  Congratulations on the good news that 
the new beams are funded!

The fourth problem requires elaboration.  It has been with great 
reluctance and puzzlement that we have arrived at the conclusion that 
there are basic velocity measurement problems; Jules and I initially 
assumed that the beam velocity measurements were perfect (that is, 
having negligible bias and no more than the expected uncorrelated 
measurement noise).  On that assumption, Jules wrote programs to bring 
the HDSS data stream into our processing software (with Jodie's Matlab 
routines as the starting point for reading the data files and doing 
coordinate transformations).  Starting from single-ping velocities 
relative to the ship, in beam or earth coordinates, the processing 
software yields vector-averaged velocity profiles relative to the 
ground, with editing, scale-factor calibration (with soundspeed 
corrections when necessary), and heading from Ashtech-corrected 
gyrocompass readings after an offset calibration.  With data from other 
ADCPs, the result usually is a nearly seamless picture of the velocity 
structure along the cruise track, with little difference between 
on-station and off-station, with no need to discard data during 
accelerations, and with calibration factors that remain stable cruise 
after cruise. Applying the same software, the same transformation, 
calibration, and navigation methods, to the HDSS data, Jules was unable 
to produce such a self-consistent velocity product.

What was the problem?  First Jules looked at every aspect of the data 
stream and low-level processing.  We have not yet found any error at the 
lowest levels--reading the files and transforming the velocities--that 
could account for the problems.  Next, we thought about the problems 
peculiar to having only two beams.  Given our assumption that the 
underlying velocity measurements were unbiased, this was the obvious 
candidate.  Indeed, I am convinced that the problem of bias owing to 
correlated pitch and heave is significant, and would be difficult if not 
impossible to correct accurately.  Calculations indicated, however, that 
the observed inconsistencies in the HDSS velocity estimates after our 
processing are too large to be caused solely by the 2-beam problems. 
Similarly, we could not account for the inconsistencies with any 
reasonable error in the assumed beam geometry.

What was left? At this point, we were forced to reexamine the velocity 
estimates themselves.  Jules has looked at HDSS-50 data from one HOT 
cruise, from the Nelson cruise preceeding P16S, and from P16S.  She has 
also looked at HDSS-140 data from P16S.  Here is a summary of the main 
points:

1) Both the 50 and the 140 show a bias towards water velocity in the aft 
direction, relative to the RDI NB-150, with the ship on station--ship 
velocity over the ground less than 0.5 m/s.  On the 50, during the HOT 
cruise when the two forward beams were operational if not optimal, all 
four beams were biased at low speeds toward along-beam velocity away 
from the instrument; but the bias was larger in the aft-facing beams, 
hence the net bias toward velocity aft when all four beams were used. 
Looking at 3-beam solutions from the 140, one finds a bias towards 
negative W on station, also consistent with the bias toward velocity in 
each beam being away from the transducer.

2) Jules looked at the velocity profiles from the 50 on P16S, averaged 
over two layers: 100-250 m and 520-620 m.  The difference between the 
layers is a measure of large-scale shear--let's call it "shear", even 
though it is still in velocity units. She compared this shear as 
measured on station versus underway.  (This is a WOCE-style line, with 
more than 100 stations at 1/2-degree intervals.)  There is a 4 cm/s 
difference, averaged over the cruise, in the meridional component of 
this vertically-integrated shear.  Given that the entire cruise was a 
south-bound section, this appears to be a bias in the shear measurement 
in the direction of motion.  There was no bias in the zonal component.

3) Visual comparison of on-station/off-station profiles from the Nelson 
cruise along the equator suggests a big difference in higher wavenumber 
shear (compared to the 200 to 600 m averaged shear considered in point 
2); it appears that on this zonal section, the meridional shear 
estimates are higher underway.  This aspect of the data is the one we 
have looked at the least, and are the least certain about.  (The Nelson 
cruise data has other problems as well, and Jules has not spent as much 
time on it as on P16S.)

So, consistency checks that do not depend in any sensitive way on 
navigation and data processing procedures lead directly to the 
conclusion that there are problems with the velocity profiles 
themselves.  To verify this, you may wish to use your own software to do 
some similar checks.  Look for systematically non-zero W from datasets 
with 3 or 4 beams.  See whether you can get consistent horizontal 
velocity estimates from any two beams, when you have 3 or 4 available to 
check against. Using velocity profiles relative to a reference layer, 
look for differences in large to medium-scale shear between on-station 
and underway times.


> data. It is important to identify whether the problems that you list 
> stem from a) acoustic / electronic issues, b) beam geometry uncertainty, 
> or c) ship navigation errors. We need more information than just a 

It is not (b) or (c).


> If one had back-to-back Janus beams, wouldn't the bias in the beams be 
> of opposite sign (<w*pitch> has opposite sign since one beam tilts up & 
> one tilts down), such that the combined estimate of horizontal velocity 
> remains biased? Subtracting back-to-back Janus beams “to get the w out” 
> , and then averaging, is mathematically identical to averaging the beams 
> independently and then subtracting. Both approaches are biased, right?

Calculations with a Janus pair are not subject to this bias, because the 
pair yields W and a horizontal velocity component.  Similarly, 3-beam 
and 4-beam calculations are fine; W is part of the calculation. 
Calculations with a non-Janus pair, such as the aft-facing beams on the 
Revelle, yield one horizontal component and a component in the tilted 
plane of the beams.  The problem comes only in this situation, from 
assuming W is zero when it is not.  Even a small error in W yields a 
large error in the forward component (for the Revelle example), a little 
  bit of which is rectified given correlated pitch.


> That being said, why can't one use the TSS pitch and heave to calculate 
> the magnitude of this bias in real time and subtract it from the 
> horizontal velocity estimates. At depths below 200m, the actual w in the 

Possibly one could, taking care to transform the TSS pitch, roll, and 
heave into heave at the transducer, and making sure the measurements 
correspond to the time of the ping.  Actually, the TSS heave as recorded 
by the HDSS would not be very helpful; it is elevation at the time of 
the ping, when what one needs is W, and it is not sampled often enough 
to provide a good estimate of W at the time of the ping.

I hope the summary above--which is much longer than what I originally 
intended--is useful.  For more detail and discussion, by all means, 
call.  My number is 808 956 7894, and Jules is at 956 7037.  Jules has 
all the data sets, calculations, routines, and plots.

Eric

