Received: from 24.107.138.60 (unknown [210.77.60.160])
	by interval.louisiana.edu (8.13.1/8.13.1/ull-interval-math-majordomo-1.5)
	with ESMTP id j3KJgYpa000702
	for <reliable_computing-outgoing@interval.louisiana.edu>; Tue, 12 Apr 2005 19:35:21 -0500 (CDT)
From: Mr.Anthony Jansen <anthonyjansen@mail.nu>
To: reliable_computing-outgoing@interval.louisiana.edu
Subject: Urgent message!!
Sender: Mr.Anthony Jansen <anthonyjansen@mail.nu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2005 21:35:35 +0200
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express 5.50.4133.2400

From The Desk of: 
Mr. Anthony Jansen
Branch Operations Manager Custody / Clearing 
Rabo Bank  
Den Haag - The Netherlands


Dear Prospective Partner, 

How are you today and business in your country? I am Mr. Anthony Jansen, 
Of the above bank. I would respectfully request that you keep the contents of
this mail confidential and respect the integrity of the information you come by
as a result of this email. I would like to intimate you with certain facts that I
believe would be of interest to you. I know you would be wondering why I am
writing you with such a request. I will only urge you to read on for clear understanding.

In June 1998, a German Oil consultant/contractor with the British Solid Minerals
Corporation, Mr.  BENJAMIN JESSE-JAMES made a numbered time (Fixed) Deposit for
twelve calendar months (AMOUNT WITHELD FOR SECURITY REASONS) with my bank where I
am Branch Operations Manager. Upon maturity of his deposit, Rabo bank
Investments and loans department sent a routine notification to his forwarding address in 
America and Germany but got no reply. After a month, we also sent a reminder and finally 
discovered from his contract employers, the British Solid Minerals Corporation that Mr. BENJAMIN
JESSE-JAMES died alongside his wife, from the plane crash in Nova Scotia which you can as well view. 


http://www.greatdreams.com/crash.htm 


This led to my bank's immediate launch of an investigation into 
reaching a possible surviving next of kin to alert about the situation and also
to come forward to claim his estate.If you are familiar with private banking
affairs, those who patronize Rabo Bank private services usually prefer anonymity, but also
some levels of detachment from conventional processes. In his bio-data form, he
listed no next of kin. In the field of private banking, opening a private account with
us means no one will know of its existence since such accounts are rarely held under a
particular name because some depositors use numbers and codes to make the accounts
anonymous. I must let you know that Rabo bank also gives the choice to depositors of
having messages sent to them or held at the bank itself, ensuring that there are no traces of 
the account and as such rarely do they nominate next of kin.
 Private banking clients apart from not nominating next of kin also usually in most cases leave wills in our 
care, in
this case; MR. BENJAMIN JESSE-JAMES died interstate. 


In line with our internal processes for account holders who have passed 
away, we instituted our own investigations in good faith to determine 
who should have right to claim the estate.This investigation has for the past
months been unfruitful because no one has been contacted as far as this
management is concerned. We have scanned every continent and used our private
investigation affiliate companies to get to the root of the problem. 

This very large sum has since been sitting in my Bank and the interest 
is being rolled over with the principal sum at the end of each year.No one will
ever come forward to claim it, and according to the New  Laws of The Netherlands, at the
expiration of 7(seven) years, the money will revert to the ownership of the
Netherlands Government if nobody applies to claim the funds.What I wish to relate to
you will smack of unethical practice but I want you to understand something,it is
only an outsider to the banking world who finds the internal politics of the
banking world aberrational. The world of banking especially is fraught with huge
rewards for those who occupy certain offices and oversee certain portfolios.You
should have begun by now to put together the general direction of what I propose.
There is a large amount of money deposited in my bank,I as the Branch Operations
Manager alone have the deposit details and I will release the due funds to no one
unless evidence of relationship with the deceased. Since I alone have the power to 
attest to the claim and know of the existence of this deposit. As far as Rabo 
Bank  is concerned, the bank's management has no single idea of what's the 
history or nature of the deposit. They are simply awaiting instructions to 
release the deposit to any party that comes forward. This is the situation. 
This bank has tried a lot to track this man's 
family; they have investigated for months and have found no family. This
investigation has come to an end. Consequently, my proposal is that I will like
you as a foreigner to stand in as the next of kin.
I am aware of the consequences of this proposal. I ask that if you find no interest in this project that you 
please let 
me know.I plead that you do not be vindictive and destructive. If my offer or
percentage share is of no appeal to you,please let me know because of the time
frame available of the said funds being confiscated, but please do not destroy my
career because you do not approve of my proposal to you. You may not know this
but people like me who have made tidy sums out of comparable situations run the
whole private banking sector. I am not a criminal and what I do, I do not find
against good conscience, this may be hard for you to understand now, but the
dynamics of my industry dictates that I make this move and fast, because such
opportunities only come ones' way and probably once in a lifetime. I cannot let
this chance pass me by, for once I find 
myself in total control of my destiny. I ask that you do not destroy my 
chance, if you will not work with me let me know and let me move on 
with my life but do not destroy me. I am a family man and this is an 
opportunity to provide my family with new opportunities. There is no risk
whatsoever as all the paperwork,my position as a Branch Operations Manager with
Rabo bank guarantee the successful execution of this transaction. If you are
interested in this lucrative role, I urge you to indicate to that effect. 

Upon your response, if favorable, I shall then provide you with more 
details and relevant information that will help you get full understanding of the
transaction. 


Yours Faithfully, 
Mr. Anthony Jansen
Branch Operations Manager. 

