Received: from ml.media.mit.edu (root@ml.media.mit.edu [18.85.13.107])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id XAA03524
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Mon, 8 Feb 1999 23:42:14 -0500 (EST)
Received: from ml.media.mit.edu (warlock@ml.media.mit.edu [18.85.13.107])
	by ml.media.mit.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id XAA19679
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Mon, 8 Feb 1999 23:42:13 -0500 (EST)
Date: Mon, 8 Feb 1999 23:42:13 -0500 (EST)
From: Jacky Mallett <warlock@media.mit.edu>
To: play99@media.mit.edu
Subject: Jacky's playtime
Message-Id: <Pine.OSF.4.05.9902082337460.2322-100000@ml.media.mit.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII


1. toy hammer with sensors for detecting what sort of objects it is being 
   used on.  Hammer would have an audio feedback which would 
   discourage/encourage its use on certain kinds of objects. Parents would 
   be able to buy or program different types depending on their social 
   inclinations, so that some hammers would say something like, 'good kids 
   don't hit other kids', (assuming that was the target), whilst incipient 
   masters/mistresses of the universe could get something like
   'the kids who hit the hardest wins'. Optional: Sale restricted to internet
   outlets which record names, addresses and social security numbers of
   who buys which type.

2. Programmable barbi (maybe this already exists)

   A barbi doll which could be programmed to say different phrases by 
   the child. Optional parental switch which loads phrases safe for mum 
   and dad to hear. 

3. musical skipping rope.

   when i was a kid there were a lot of skipping games that used to be
   played during school breaks. This would be a standard skipping rope
   that had a small loudspeaker and a recording of the music and perhaps
   lyrics with and without the rules as alternatives to be selected.  There
   were/are a lot of these games, and as i recall each school had its own
   local knowledge bank, which the skipping rope could increase. Possibly
   also with the ability to record. 

4. Kids do it yourself gene sequencing kit.

   Definately under the toys from hell category, this would allow 
   biologically inclined children (and adults) to play with easy gene 
   sequencing (from insects say). Advanced models would permit you to create 
   your own genome. (Technically this may well be practical in the real soon 
   now...be scared.)

5. [Same idea quite a few people have i suspect]

   very simple, small, and cheap, slightly mobile somethings, that could 
   be programmed with a small set of behaviours, and could then be put
   together in groups to explore the emergent results. Suitable in particular
   for the war games crowd, who seem content to spend days moving small model
   armies across boards and throwing dice to get the same effect, but 
   behaviours could be purely mechanical, or social (10 bots vary in how 
   much  they want to get close, get away from specific other bots...what
   happens?) Anyone for american football?

6. VR Stunt kites.

   stunt kites are those two string jobs that offer considerable 
   maneuverability and scope for tricks. This model would have a very small 
   camera mounted on it, and <here a miracle occurs> would tranmit a full
   VR field of what it could see to the person operating the kite. It would
   be interesting to see if you could build this so that it doesn't cause
   severe motion sickness, but maybe in that case it would make a suitable 
   trainer for astronauts instead.

7. intelligent block puzzles.

   these are the sort of puzzles which break down into 10 or more separate
   pieces and you have to reassemble them into some kind of solid shape.
   Problem is they can be very hard
   to figure out for younger kids, and once you've looked at a solution 
   it's all over. So these pieces would have minimal intelligence, a 
   simple motion detector and a small loudspeaker. If they detected that
   they were being played with, small hints would be given at periodic
   intervals to help you solve the puzzle, without giving the whole thing
   away at once.
   
   advanced version: once you've solved it, it somehow reconfigures itself
   into a different puzzle.

8. remote controlled, child sized, vacuum cleaner. (with easy to empty
   dust bag...)

9. kids do it youself space probe kit

   I saw an item recently that somebody here at MIT was working on small
   cheap rockets (under $10) which could reach orbit (albeit with a very 
   small payload). So an extension of this would be to make the payload
   consist of a cheap radio and a camera/telescope which could be used
   to do your own space exploring. (Bound to get any local aliens howling
   to the intergalactic vacuum protection league before you can even say
   Space Family Robinson - but it's interesting to speculate what could
   become possible if the current trends of smaller/cheaper continue for
   much longer.)

10. instrument trainer/accompaniest.

    follows in the ground breaking steps of  "silento brasso" (a japanese 
    mute for brass instruments which considerably quietens the sound, but
    recreates the actual sound of the instrument through a pair of headphones
    for the player).  This would be an intelligent music trainer and also
    provide accompanying instruments to simulate playing in a group.
    You can buy cdroms that sort of provide this for musical instruments, but
    this would have intelligence and would provide training exercises and
    and an accompaniest as you play. Version 10.3  would detect
    egregious mistakes and suggest exercises to resolve them.


 




