Received: from [24.128.236.128] (jedimaster.ne.mediaone.net [24.128.236.128])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id AAA32352
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 00:30:42 -0500 (EST)
X-Sender: erikb@media.mit.edu
Message-Id: <v04003a02b2e5781dfa65@[24.128.236.128]>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/enriched; charset="us-ascii"
Date: Tue, 9 Feb 1999 00:30:38 -0500
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Erik Blankinship <blankinboat@media.mit.edu>
Subject: ten things to play with

ten toys:


1)  "Digital Tragedy / Comedy Masks" -- These masks can be set to
express a certain emotion and, when looking through the eyes of the
mask, display the emotions of other masks differently depending on
which emotional state they are set to.  For example, someone who has
set their own mask to angry will see another masks set to angry as
jealous and see masks set to happy as indifferent.  The masks could be
used in theater or English classes to teach about different points of
view.


2) "Smart Soap" -- Soap which knows which part of the body it is
washing, and will remind a kid when they have not washed every part of
their body.  Could be implemented with computer vision tracking
brightly colored/tagged soap?


3) "Daddy's Tie (to the Internet)" - A necktie connected to a drawing
applet/application.  When kids draw on the applet version of the
necktie, the real necktie is updated with the drawings.  Could be
implemented using paper-pc / cloth-pc technology.


4) "Tangi - gotchi" -- Just like a Tamagotchi, but with a number of
sensors which allow it to sense the outside world --> bar code reader
so it can eat food, rollers so it can be rolled around for exercise,
etc. Embed it into a plush toy so the kids can play with a more natural
looking toy friend.


5) "Electronic Tattoos", "Electronic Fingernails", "Electronic Iron-Ons
For T-Shirts" - Using micro-media's printed PC technology, kids could
make digital tattoos they could wear - they could play a sound if they
attached themselves to a speaker.


6) "Augmented Reality Kite" - A kite is rigged up with a lightweight
camera, and the kite's handle is rigged up with a display.  The handle
is also rigged up with an IR beacon.  If the kite sees the IR beacon,
it can use it as a frame of reference to create a grid over the
landscape.  Virtual objects can be added to the landscape using the
grid - dinosaurs, Volcanoes, etc.


7) "Battle Armor" - Kids like to battle with nerf swords and nerf
arrows and the like.  Make nerf armor pieces that change color
depending on how often or how hard they have been hit.  Limbs that have
been "lost" could stiffen up to let the user know that that limb is
unusable.  


8) "What Did We Do Today Doll" - A doll / action figure which records
information about its play environment and usage - which (real or
dollhouse) room it was in, how it is being played with, which other
dolls it played with...  The collected data can be graphed and
displayed for the kid to see what their toy does during the day.


9) "Medieval Weapon Construction Kit" - Package together a number of
medieval weapon pieces: handles, blades, maces, polearms.  As you
assemble the pieces together, archival images of the weapon you built
are displayed on screen.


10) "Sleep Doll" - a doll or stuffed animal which records what you say
in the night and tells you about it in the morning.  Or maybe this
could be a pillow.


ERIK!

Erik Blankinship

http://www.media.mit.edu/~erikb/


