Received: from choosh (wireless-11.media.mit.edu [18.85.18.11])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id FAA06598
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 05:19:19 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <01d701be5415$b3fb7480$0b125512@choosh.media.mit.edu>
From: "Seungho Choo" <choosh@media.mit.edu>
To: <play99@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Seungho's Top 10
Date: Tue, 9 Feb 1999 05:19:39 -0500
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-2"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Priority: 3
X-Msmail-Priority: Normal
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express 4.72.3155.0
X-Mimeole: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V4.72.3155.0

ColorKids1:
This can sense colors of everything, so if kids put it on some places or
objects  , it plays music according to the color. Everything has color, so
this allows kids to play with everthing in their environments.

ColorKids2:
This toy can track specific color on surfaces. Kids draw a line, it follow
the line by color sensor. We can program it to do specific behavior such as
" turn around", "go back","turn left", etc when it meets specific color
So, kids get to understand the behaviors and relation to the color, they can
control the toy's motion by drawing lines with several colors.

ColorKids3:
This objects has small screen which show a certain colors.
If two kids who have them meet and play with them, colors can be exchanged
by IR and it can memorize the other's color by identifing the signal.
If the number of playing with each other increase, color become to be
similar.
What a friendship!
( Or, by shaking it, randomly a color is selected and displayed. And then
two of color get to be close  smoothly. )

Music Sword :
Two swords are connected to computer.  if a certain part of one sword and a
part of the other sword collide or meet, it trigger a specific sound on
scale such as "do", "re". So, two kids can collaborate to play a music
intentionally.

Followers:
A set of toys with a learder toy: if kid moves a leader toy in some
trajetory, the other toys traces it in a certain time interval or behave in
same way from its position. Kids can create patterns of the movement of
them. (a toy that remember its pervious trajectory and repeat moving along
with the trace has been developed and implemented by Phil of TMG)

Remote Control by motion:
One is a toy like a remote controlled car. The other is a motion sender
other than a controller.  By grasping and moving it in a space, kid can
control the action of remote car or toy.

Squeezing and expaning(see-saw):
Two objects is virtually conneted. if one is squeezed , the other is
expanded. Vice versa.
So, this can be a sort of haptic communication way for only two kids.
Action-reaction
is adopted.

Pitching a ball onto wall:
Using  projector,  it draws curves  that trace  hit points on a wall at
everytime kid pitch a ball onto the wall and also, it can lead kids to hit a
point on the wall  by projecting a target. (cf. Pingpong plus)
Several kids can play together at the same time.

Messenger toy:
This is not for personal belongings. A kid record his/her voice and some
movement  to this toy. And then, next day, he give it to a friend. The
friend hear the sound and see the toy's motion and then record his answer.
And continue ...
There is a personal key to play the recorded sound for him.
Lcd can be applied to show indication the frequency of communication with
it.
Like damagochi, if it is low, it show some sign of sadness.
Each kid can have each toy. And with the same concept above, they can
exchange them.

Sign language toy:
A certain motion of arms or legs trigger a specific sounds and display text
on LCD to convey the meaning which is contained in the motion. It will teach
sign language to normal children as well as the handicapped children in very
natural way.

-_-;

Seungho Choo
Tangible Media Group
3-4121












