Received: from aer (aer.media.mit.edu [18.85.1.138])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id JAA31685
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 09:50:58 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <4.1.19990209094920.00a01250@mailhost.media.mit.edu>
X-Sender: khkramer@mailhost.media.mit.edu (Unverified)
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Pro Version 4.1 
Date: Tue, 09 Feb 1999 09:49:53 -0500
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Kwin Hultman Kramer <khkramer@media.mit.edu>
Subject: some toys
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Free-form checkers - Checker game pieces that flip from red to black
(or maybe white to navy blue, or green to purple). You don't use a
board to play with these; you just slide them around on top of a
table. They change color depending on the colors and positions of
their nearby neighbors. If you don't like the "rules" of interaction
you can change them, using a desktop computer to write new game
patterns for your pieces.

Crazy Sound Tube - A bendable, pullable, shakeable, squeezable tube
that plugs into stereo headphones and responds to all of the above by
producing a private music and sound effects show. Or plug a bunch of
them (maybe different "instruments") into a multiplexer and a stereo
with speakers for a concert. And for the adventurous Constructionist,
perhaps you could customize or add to the repertoir of your Crazy Tube
by writing new sounds and response patterns in Logo.

Infrared Glasses - When I was in sixth grade it became pretty obvious
that I needed glasses, which I hated wearing. Maybe I would have liked
them a little more if they could have changed the view of the world
that they gave me depending on my mood. So -- a la Steve Mann -- how
about a pair of eyeglasses that could change tint, or become
"rose-colored," or show me infrared or ultraviolet parts of the
spectrum, sometimes. Maybe even kids with 20/20 vision would want
them.

Shoes-Alive - As Neil is fond of pointing out, shoes have room for
electronics and built-in kinetic power. With this in mind, and a
little creative use of electro-luminiscent and similar materials, we
should be able to make really nifty light-up shoes. And not just shoes
that blink an LED or two, but shoes that light up differently for
every person, every day. And how about athletic shoes that respond to
motion, artsy shoes that can reflect the aesthetics of the wearer, and
shoes for high-school sweethearts that glow sympathetically when their
mates' are nearby.

Audio Spotlight Jr. - A little megaphone that "throws" your voice
across the room. Appeals to the desire in all of us to play
ventriloquist.


