Received: from ml.media.mit.edu (mls@ml.media.mit.edu [18.85.13.107])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id KAA13861;
	Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:17:02 -0500 (EST)
Received: from localhost (mls@localhost)
	by ml.media.mit.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id KAA32023;
	Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:17:02 -0500 (EST)
Date: Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:17:02 -0500 (EST)
From: Michelle Shook <mls@media.mit.edu>
To: play99@media.mit.edu
Cc: mls@media.mit.edu
Subject: Toy ideas
Message-Id: <Pine.OSF.4.05.9902090919370.11487-100000@ml.media.mit.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

My top ten toy ideas...

10. Magnetic Music
	Kind of like magnetic poetry but you can put musical notes
together on the refrigerator to compose music and play it back while you
are cooking dinner. Maybe the magnetic poetry can be modified so that it
can interact with the music and become lyrics for songs.

9. Interactive Frisbee and Dog Collar
	A frisbee that senses how close a dog is to catching the
frisbee from the collar around the dog's neck.  As the dog gets closer to
the frisbee, the frisbee flashes its lights quickly and plays music to a
crescendo when the dog finally catches it.  

8. Programmable Slip N' Slide
	A twist on the old slip n' slide that uses sensors to track the
movement of the slider and directly aim streams of water at him or her.
Additionally, the slider could alternate the style of the water spraying
out, like in parabolic arches or fine mists.

7. Stringless Marionettes
	Puppets that move their eyes, legs, etc and mimic the movement of
sensors on the puppeteer's fingers. That way, the puppeteer can remain
concealed behind a curtain and the puppets look like they are moving by
themselves.

6. Programmable Garden
	A contained aquarium-type gardening kit that provides children
with several different plants and soil and then allows the children to
use a computer to program the soil temperature, lighting, and water
control for different areas of the aquarium, allowing the kids to find the
optimal climate for different vegetables and flowers.

5. Musical Painting
	A special canvas with a camera that interprets the different
colors applied, type of brush with which the color is applied, and speed
with which the paint is applied and translates it into musical tones,
allowing the painter to compose a musical score that reflects the mood and
tone of the painting.

4. Storytelling Beanie Babies
	Seeing as how kids love collecting beanie babies, this would allow
kids to download typed stories or voice recorded stories into their own 
beanie baby and then send them to their friend's beanie babies, giving
kids the ability to start their own storytelling network throughout the
community among owners of the beanbag toys.

3. Programmable Pet
	For all the kids who have parents that are allergic to animals,
this would give children the opportunity to "adopt" a programmable stuffed
animal that can be taught to bark at sibling invaders, retreive the
newspaper, or play with balls and plastic squeaky toys.

2. Mood Braces
	Well this isn't exactly a toy, but when I had braces, the cool
thing was to get different colored rubber bands around the brackets and to
make your mouth as colorful as possible. Mood braces could make the
brackets turn different colors, depending upon your stress level.
Added bonus because when the orthodontist tightens your wires too much,
the braces turn red. Instant feedback.

1. Coaching Baseball and Bat
	A talking baseball that tells a child how hard he/she hit the ball 
and gives suggestions of how to swing the bat to improve his/her
techinique and form.



michelle shook






