Received: from MIT.EDU (PACIFIC-CARRIER-ANNEX.MIT.EDU [18.69.0.28])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id KAA31614
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:30:39 -0500 (EST)
Received: from GRAND-CENTRAL-STATION.MIT.EDU by MIT.EDU with SMTP
	id AA20784; Tue, 9 Feb 99 10:31:02 EST
Received: from melbourne-city-street.MIT.EDU (MELBOURNE-CITY-STREET.MIT.EDU [18.69.0.45])
	by grand-central-station.MIT.EDU (8.9.2/8.9.2) with ESMTP id KAA00628
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:30:37 -0500 (EST)
Received: from mit.edu (OROUP.MIT.EDU [18.244.1.37])
	by melbourne-city-street.MIT.EDU (8.9.2/8.9.2) with ESMTP id KAA10032
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:30:37 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <36C053F0.425EF677@mit.edu>
Date: Tue, 09 Feb 1999 10:27:44 -0500
From: Oliver Roup <oroup@MIT.EDU>
X-Mailer: Mozilla 4.5 [en] (WinNT; I)
X-Accept-Language: en
Mime-Version: 1.0
To: play99@media.mit.edu
Subject: Top ten.
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

1. Physical Minesweeper: Minesweeper is an enjoyable game on computer,
but it's need for significant internal state has so far made it
inappropriate for the physical world. We could build a physical version
of Minesweeper with all the electronics carefully hidden inside the
board. Ideally we would make multiple boards capable of sharing state
when placed adjacent to one another.

2. You Are The Star: Karaoke+. The 'base' unit would be a microphone and
a speaker unit you would place on the floor of your living room,
amplifying your voice, but the 'hook' is that you could get additional,
disconnected units that modified or augmented the behavior of the
system: Additional speakers, perhaps that do reverb or some kind of
percussion overlay. A colored light that pans and swivels to track you
around your living room. A networked node that brought in additional
content from the internet or connected you to others singing the same
song throughout the world for ensemble numbers.

3. Travel Echo. A gps enabled device that you carry while travelling. It
records snippets of audio in it's environment and uploads them to some
central database. Later when someone with a similar device comes to that
same spot, they hear an echo of those who have come before them. I think
the trick here would be in not making things too easy. It should not be
possible to play the audio for some arbitrary location without actually
going there. It should also try and avoid people specifically recording
a certain something but rather wait for 'candid' audio moments.

4. Gathering Amulets: We make severeal different 'brands' of amulets,
each representing a different clan with a different backstory. The
amulet is a device  that glows or hums or vibrates when it is near to
other devices of similar clan, perhaps inconsistently, perhaps after
some sort of delay. Also, perhaps it shouldn't glow if amulets from
other clans are also present. The idea being that kids are always left
wondering who is in their clan, trying to meet others from their clan.
Maybe there can be some kind of greeting passed from amulet to amulet,
similar to the audio echo above. (Think Highlander, hopefully without
the swordplay. There can definitely be more than one.)

5. Haptic Twins: A doll or plush toy is bonded at manufacturing time
with another identical doll that are sent to geographically and perhaps
culturally disparate locations. When one is moved or posed the other
moves to mimic. Again, perhaps audio of some kind can be passed between
the two, not literal recordings, but snippets, fading in and out
perhaps.. The idea is not that things turn into haptic tug of war, but
that each doll is 'inhabited' by the spirit of another child.
Potentially, the doll that your doll inhabits, and the one that inhabits
that your doll would not have to be the same. IE, the dolls wouldn't be
strictly paired but just inhabited by 'another' doll. Obviously there
are issues like what happens if nobody ever buys the doll yours is
paired with.

6. Cheshire cat: In tourist shops there are these cheesy little ceramic
heads you can buy that when you turn their head they kind of bob back
and forth. We could make one of those that slowly turns to face any
sound in the room. Or similarly a Cheshire cat that always keeps it's
eyes on you. (May actually be kind of freaky, but hey.)

7. Remote Control Tail Gaiters: Remote control cars, once several
hundred dollars and requiring elaborate construction now are in the
commodity domain of Tyco and others. Each car needs a 'gag' something it
does that distinguishes it from other cars like it. We could build 'tail
lights' into a popular car, and then make other cars with no remote
control, but that simply follow the lights of the car in from. These
follower cars should have tail lights themselves, so the cars can be
trained together, the more cars you have, the longer the train.

8. A 'real' lightsaber: OK, I know it is a bit late to get tie in
merchandise on the store shelves, maybe we can do it for the sequel to
the prequel. But I want a lightsaber as an input device to a computer
game. You need some way to track the position and orientation of a
lightsaber throughout three-space, but imagine a mortal-combat style
video game, but with swords, and you use a real sword looking device to
play. Handling character movements might be tough, but if you tracked
translation of the sword, you might be able to fake it. If cost weren't
a big deal you could add tracking to the feet or something to handle
advance and retreat kind of movement. At close range, IR is probably
viable for sword-computer communication. You could also have some kind
of physical feedback in the sword, like a physical jolt when you hit
something.

9. Active Bat (Not to be confused with ActiveX): OK, I know this was a
joke in a Microsoft-sucks email that went around a while ago, but the
time interval between absurd and marketable product is getting shorter
every year. An 'active' bat is one that has a compressed air cylinder
inside and exhaust ports on the sides, and directs the bat into the ball
using real time tracking of the ball. The player supplies the force, the
bat supplies the aim. Some might argue that this takes the fun out of
baseball, but I think it gives uncoordinated kids the practice and
confidence they need to use a real bat. I think it might be a cool
training tool too.

10. A mail droid. I always loved those little robots that looked like
letter carriers running around the Death Star in Star Wars. I am not
sure what the status is, but I know someone at the lab is trying to do
in building lojack, which could do position sensing within a couple of
milimeters. It would be fun to build an actual mail droid that just
wandered around the building, visiting various rooms. It could either
have some way to call the elevator or just wait for it and take a ride.
It wouldn't necessarily have to deliver real mail, it could just have
'personality.' Maybe you could tell it: Go get me a soda from the soda
machine.


