Received: from ml.media.mit.edu (dano@ml.media.mit.edu [18.85.13.107])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id KAA18714
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:53:08 -0500 (EST)
Received: from localhost (dano@localhost)
	by ml.media.mit.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id KAA22277
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:53:08 -0500 (EST)
Date: Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:53:08 -0500 (EST)
From: Dan Overholt <dano@media.mit.edu>
To: play99@media.mit.edu
Subject: Toy Ideas...
Message-Id: <Pine.OSF.4.05.9902091014140.9310-100000@ml.media.mit.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

1)  Virtual musicians that allow kids to create a personalized character
that they can interact with.  Kids choose an instrument they want their
character to play, what type of band they want to be in, and define their
musical style and "look".  Each instrument could have built in riffs that
sound "cool", but as a kid becomes better at controlling a character, they
would have more musical control and flexibility.

2)  Audio building blocks that allow kids to put together chains of signal
processing.  The actual DSP could be done on a pentium, with the blocks
relaying their arrangement back to the computer.  Blocks could be 
connected either with wires or by touching each other, and each box would
have its own purpose, ie a delay box, a flange box, a resonant filter,
etc.  Input to the chain could be from a microphone or CD player, etc.

3)  Clear/Break apart jet engine that lets kids see the inside of the
technology and begin to understand how it works.  I have seen models of 
car engines like this, but turbine engines are actually much simpler in
operation than a typical piston engine.

4)  A magic mirror that gives you arguments when you mismatch your 
clothes.  With the camera behind the mirror and face recognition, you 
could record messages to be played back when the mirror sees your brother
or sister.

5)  Emergency parachute system for remote control airplanes.  This would
actually be quite useful while learning to fly RC planes.  A spring loaded
mechanism mounted on the empenage (tail section) that opens the parachute
with a button press on the remote could save many an airplane from 
destruction.  (I remember my first plane's disastrous maiden voyage after 
I had spent many hours building it...)  :-(

6)  Realistic sounding toy airplanes for toddlers that make appropriate
jet noises (using a tilt sensor) -- cruising noises when flying level, and
bring in the doppler effect when the nose is tilted down.  Also makes
crashing noises when you touch it down other than moving forward as the
wheels touch.

7)  Musical hula hoops that allow you to control the rhythm or some other
aspect of the music that they generate.  Would use accelerometers or 
buttons on the inside of the hoop to sense motion.  Also, a walkman with  
accelerometers could track the speed at which you walk and adjust the 
tempo of the music to match.

8)  Scanner music -- take a handheld scanner and turn it into a musical
instrument by using the signals generated by the optics.  Could be done
either as software on a desktop computer, or by adding a synth and a
speaker to the scanner make it portable.

9)  (I think Saul Griffith is already working on this...) Musical kites
that use wind power to drive string(s) into vibration. Kite handle(s)
would also be remote controls for things like tension of the strings (to
change pitch), etc -- can be done with muscle wire.

10) Audio rangefinder that varies some musical parameter based on its
distance from whatever you point it at.  if you aim it at something
far away, and scan across the room to something closer, the shape of the
room (and obstacles) would vary the music it produces.


--Dan


