Received: from twiggy (twiggy.media.mit.edu [18.85.17.49])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id KAA22808
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 10:56:56 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <199902091556.KAA22808@aleve.media.mit.edu>
X-Sender: kelly@ml.media.mit.edu
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Pro Version 4.0.1 
Date: Tue, 09 Feb 1999 11:00:08 -0500
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Kelly Bowman Heaton <kelly@media.mit.edu>
Subject: toys
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
X-Mime-Autoconverted: from 8bit to quoted-printable by aleve.media.mit.edu id KAA22808

1.  Digital FingerPaint:  Clear building blocks that contain 3 LEDs insid=
e,=20
such that the LEDs can be "mixed" to generate a full range of colors.  Th=
e=20
blocks would come with a palette that you can use to mix your LED colors =
(the=20
palette would have several "pots of LED paint" whose color could be
adjusted using
a knob).  Once a color is mixed and selected, touch the building blocks t=
o
"paint"
them with light).  The palette will also have several texture buttons tha=
t
can be=20
applied to the blocks for dynamic patterns of colored light.  If the bloc=
ks
could remember
their paint "history," this could be played back as a light pattern in th=
e
blocks,=20
like a 3-D Simon Says... or else, you could create movement of color and
light to mimic the appearance of running water, wind blowing leaves in
trees, etc...

2.  Self-Aware Macromolecules Molecules (SAMM):  Imagine a molecular set
that could "know" it's structure as you build it, such that it could tell
you (via computer screen or voice recording) what molecule you had built.
Sort-of like Triangles, SAMM would have 3-D structural awareness, includi=
ng
knowledge of stereochemistry; and it could access an on-line database of
chemical structures to tell you what molecule you had built.

3. Thinker Toys:  Based on Digital Fingerpaint and SAMM,  Thinker Toys ma=
ke
use of 3-D=20
"self-awareness" to redefine what is possible with building blocks.
Instead of comprising a=20
chemistry set, each building block contributes to the genetic design of a
creature that assumes a behavior which is the cumulative result of the
individual blocks.  Preferably, these behaviors would manifest in physica=
l
traits (within the blocks themselves); alternately, the arrangement of th=
e
blocks could produce various Carl Simms-like creatures in a
computer-generated world.  Each block may contain pattern or color
information that could influence it's neighbors, and children could
contribute to the creation of these behaviors by recording their building
or "painting" process (see Digital FingerPaint) and playing them back.  I=
f
the blocks contained sensors, they could "react" to light or sound in
different ways, perhaps by movement (think Kinetic Tinker Toys).  Power
supply for a large system of distributed objects is a problem, though...
and some playful ideas for recharging batteries would be good.

4. Kid Power:  Powering digital toys is a real problem requiring lots of
expensive and irritating batteries.  Rechargeable batteries are good, but
they currently require parents to deal with them. What if kid power could
be used to recharge batteries?  Perhaps pogo sticks, Sit and Spin,
trampolines or bicycles could be coupled with a cool device that enables
kids to generate the power for their toys by recharging batteries in a fu=
n
way.  Alternately, maybe common household devices could be exploited for
their power-generating properties:  imagine recharging your batteries by
throwing them into a padded bag and running them through a cycle in the
dryer to convert the heat and tumbling motion=20
into battery power.  Or sticking the (especially-made non-metallic)
batteries in the microwave, half in water and half out.
 =20
5.  Warm FuzzE:  A small, portable creature (maybe it velcro-sits on your
shoulder)
that can digitally record your secrets like a diary.  In addition to
recording your speech,=20
Warm FuzzEs have LCD screen (or E-ink) animated eyes and simple
sound-making capability that gives them the ability to acknowledge your
speech ("mmm!" and "uh-huh..").  They also have a tiny pager motor inside
that will shake when the Warm FuzzE is full of sound and needs to be
uploaded.  Once the sound is uploaded, you have a diary recorded sound
clips - maybe once speech recognition improves, the diary could actually
upload into written format.

6.  Accessory Magic:  Currently, toy-makers try to animate their characte=
rs
by putting the "smarts" in the toy, usually resulting in toys that are ha=
rd
to the touch (=3D not cuddly).  What if instead of plush toys having the
batteries and electronics inside, they had the capability to connect to a
"magic" accessory- like a bike, car or pony, that would respond to the
presence of the plush toy by producing all sorts of digital "magic," such
as flashing LEDs, speech, music, etc... This way, the toy itself could
remain soft; and when you removed it from the magic accessory, it would b=
e
just a plush toy.  The combination of the two would be the act that
resulted in the magical traits, like Wonder Twin Powers activate... =20

7.  PolyWalk:  Wouldn't it be cool to have a square or dodecahedron that
would "walk"
across a table, and change it's direction if it hit an impediment?  Using
either shape memory alloy or an off-centered weight, I'd like to build a
walking polyhedra.  A shape memory alloy sea urchin (that crawled along o=
n
it's SMA spikes) would also be nice.

8.  TeleToy:  Using networked toy technology (i.e. the PIA Penguins and R=
ob
Poor's Hyphos), I think it would be interesting (and challenging) to
develop an open-ended toy character that could be regularly updated via a
remote network, like a living cartoon.  The combination of sensor reactio=
n
to the real-world (like Furby) and the influx of new information from the
network could be particularly compelling.  How could these two technologi=
es
be merged to develop a character that is convincing and entertaining over
the long term (as opposed to Furby, whose behaviors eventually become
predictable); and not dependent on proximity to the TV for content (like
Barney)?

9.  Artificial Aquarium:  Some things are a whole lot harder to do in air
than in water, such as moving things around with 3 degrees of freedom.
Self-assembly is tough to model on a large scale without floating the
=93molecules=94 in some medium.  Wouldn=92t it be fantastic to replicate
self-assembly on the macro scale?  Using primitive shape memory alloy
flagella for motility, =93puzzle=94 fit shapes and carefully placed magen=
ts,
perhaps you could mimic the self-assembly process in an aquarium (or at
least make a lot of nifty artificial microorganisms).  Or else, you could
float some charged, mylar balloon macro-atoms in the atrium... =20

10.  Digital Circus:  This is a broader concept, inspired by sculptor /
artist Alexander Calder. =20
I think it would be a great demo to build a digital and mechanical circus
using current technology.  For example, the circus could contain: a crowd
that would blink in patterns of light as it applauded events in different
parts of the ring; a piezo electric flea circus (Rich Fletcher);
tag-carrying clowns that could recognize each other and respond
appropriately; a (very thin) ballerina that would spin on a circular
electrostatic motor; a lion with animated LCD eyes that would roar loader
and scowl as you got near it; an announcer / ring leader that could
recognize tags and give appropriate, real-time information from the
internet; various computer-animated projections; and others.  The entire
circus could be built using current manufacturing materials and methods,
such as the laser cutter, 3-D printer, smart materials, etc...    =20



