Received: from MIT.EDU (SOUTH-STATION-ANNEX.MIT.EDU [18.72.1.2])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with SMTP id LAA24099;
	Tue, 9 Feb 1999 11:07:58 -0500 (EST)
Received: from MIT.MIT.EDU by MIT.EDU with SMTP
	id AA06475; Tue, 9 Feb 99 11:07:54 EST
Received: from cyclone.media.mit.edu by MIT.MIT.EDU (5.61/4.7) id AA11836; Tue, 9 Feb 99 11:07:44 EST
Message-Id: <36C05D94.CEB009D3@media.mit.edu>
Date: Tue, 09 Feb 1999 11:08:52 -0500
From: Phil Frei <frei@media.mit.edu>
X-Mailer: Mozilla 4.5 [en] (Win98; I)
X-Accept-Language: en
Mime-Version: 1.0
To: play99@media.mit.edu
Subject: toy ideas
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Digital Labyrinth

Based on the classic game of Labyrinth, I would like to propose a small
hand-held digital Labyrinth. I'm imagining a 2x3 inch high resolution
LCD screen with a graphical labyrinth and ball. Using accelerometers,
one can measure the tilt on the screen and have the virtual ball respond
to real tilt. It would have an on/off button, a difficulty select
button, and a stop/reset button. (Partially based on Golan Levin's work)

Mechanical Workbench

An electromechanical attachment to your screen, that seamlessly connects
virtual and physical events to create a great learning tool for
mechanical systems. For example, you could have a string (with hidden
electromechanical actuation) mounted to the top of your monitor, so that
it appears that the real string enters the virtual world. In the virtual
world, one could attach weights and when one lifts the weights with the
real string you could feel the downward force. Now one could attach a
pulley in between and feel the difference in force. Push against virtual
springs with a peg. Etc.

Jacob's eLadder

It would be fun to add electronics this classic wooden toy to either
enhance the illusion. One could try to change the state of the surface
(using EL lamps, for example) of each block as it topples down, so that
the piece that appears to be falling to the bottom is a different color.

Measuring Balls

Balls that can tell how far apart they are. If this could be shrunk down
to marble size elements, it would make a great measuring tape
replacement. Unlike a measuring tape, it wouldn't sag or have a problem
with physical obstacles. If you loose one, you could find the other one.
Or you could have somebody hide one, and figure out where it is.

Color Sampler

I would like to create a physical version of the Photoshop Eyedroppper
that can sample a color on a picture. This pen or eyedropper like device
would take a picture of whatever was just in front of it and reduce the
whole image to one color. When the eyedropper is returned to its holder
next to the computer it send the color information to the drawing
program. If you wanted to paint with the color of your couch, you could
just go and get that color, instead of guessing on a color wheel.

B&W Glasses

I know this isn't really possible without some active filtering, but
having glasses that turned everything into black and white would be very
cool. This would also be useful to learn elements of photography.

Jacob's Ladder Book

Because of its unique folding, I think there is potential to turn this
into a great story telling medium. With the inherent physical
constraints of the mechanism, one could create something that lies in
between a classic book and a non-linear narrative. Maybe it could be a
picture book for younger children, where they have to search for
something by folding the Jacob's Ladder in different ways.

LED Lightbrite

An array of three-color LEDs about the size of a classic Lightbrite. The
LED are mounted on small buttons, which when pressed give the LEDs one
of four states, on red, green, white, or off. When the LED Lightbrite is
first turned on, all the LEDs are off. You can then press your hand on
the device and leave your print in red. You can then put your other hand
on it and also leave its print in red, but the places that overlap with
your other hand will be green. You can also click on each LED
individually to adjust the image. 

Hand-cranked Toys

I like the idea of human-powered toys. It doesn't just have to be a
hand-cranked. I have no clear ideas yet, but besides the fact that you
never need batteries and you can run the device right out of the box, I
think there is a lot to be learned by powering your own devices and
seeing how they work.

WallCrawler

I would like to have a toy that can walk up walls. I don't know how to
do this, but it would be very cool.

