Received: from chmls06.mediaone.net (chmls06.mediaone.net [24.128.1.71])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id LAA07991
	for <play99@amt.media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 11:31:24 -0500 (EST)
Received: from [24.128.174.6] (visioneightor.ne.mediaone.net [24.128.174.6])
	by chmls06.mediaone.net (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id LAA25084
	for <play99@amt.media.mit.edu>; Tue, 9 Feb 1999 11:31:22 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: <199902091631.LAA25084@chmls06.mediaone.net>
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express for Macintosh - 4.01 (295) 
Date: Tue, 09 Feb 1999 11:32:32 -0500
Subject: Stu's Toys
From: "Stuart Drexler" <drexlest@gse.harvard.edu>
To: play99@amt.media.mit.edu
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Priority: 3
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="ISO-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

10. Yo-yo Magic
Yo-yo with a built in gyroscope and microchip brain to interpret the forces
acting upon it.  It outputs musical notes and rhythmic beats according to
the way you play with it.  It could even react differently to different
users if a second sensor measured the pulse or skin galvanic response of th=
e
user.  If anyone can think of a way to get it to do its own tricks, or make
it able to learn/memorize tricks, that would be even better.

9. Music in Motion
Motion sensors attached to clothing (shirt, shorts, and gloves) each cue
different programmable sounds.  Move to make sounds.  Move rhythmically to
make music.  Skin galvanic response sensor in one of the gloves would affec=
t
real-time changes the mood or tone of the composition based on its
measurements.

8. Light Art
A compact laser light projection system for your bedroom.  Be able to creat=
e
laser light art and put on shows for your family and friends.  Alternately,
rather than projecting onto physical surfaces, it could project holographic
images several inches above itself.  When in "autocreate" mode, the
projector would react to external sound or music to create light displays.

7. Living Friendship Bracelets
Bracelets that glow and swirl with color when worn.  They light up and play
clips from your favorite song whenever they are in  proximity of your best
friend=B9s matching bracelet, as long as hers is being worn, recognized by a
skin galvanic sensor.  The closer two matching bracelets are in distance,
the more they begin to emulate one another=B9s  color patterns.  When not
worn, they automatically turn off.  

6. Smart Hot Wheels XV Racer Set
A double width Hot Wheels track that=B9s wired to keep tabs on up to 6
specially created XV cars at the same time.  You get to program the names o=
f
your cars=B9 drivers.  The grandstand speaker then will announce the race pla=
y
by play as it progresses.  The cars themselves make wild sounds when they d=
o
loop tricks, and wipe out sounds when if they fly off the track.

5. Spy Kit
Comprehensive spy set up: super sensitive listening device with digital
recording chip, 2-way radio watches, fingerprint recognition palette that
can be used to build personal electronic locks, and flywheel add-on to
bicycles for quick burst getaways.

4. Rocket Ride
Miniature on-board live video system lets you go along for the ride in a to=
y
rocket.  Other instruments measure the g-force, velocity, and wind speed. 
All these are beamed by radio back to the ground station, where kids can
track the telemetry to improve on later flights.  

3. Flexible Art
Digital touch-sensitive art tablet.  Allows you to include text, upload
photos, or create your own artwork on the fly.  The tablet is thin enough
that you can attach to the front of your notebook, diary, photo album, etc.=
 
A magnetically backed version can even be applied to the refrigerator.

2. Art Cap
Smaller version of the Flexible Art concept.  Would create a hat that could
have different logos or images on it every time you wear it.  You could set
it to rotate between a set number of patterns you program.  Or, like some
screen savers, set it to random and it will generate colorful swirling
patterns of its own.  Could include a small speaker to allow sound
capabilities as well.

1. Eco-toys
Create a series of toys that would allow kids to connect unseen processes
with those that  they do see.  A simple spectrometer, allowing them to
measure the make up of substances, could be used to take soil readings for =
a
plant they=B9re growing.  The sensor would alert them when they=B9ve over- or
under-watered, and when the plant needs nitrogen.  A weather station with
barometer, thermometer, and GPS capability can be hooked up to the Internet
to display the real weather data for their area.  Underwater sensors could
be developed to build into a submarine that could be remote-controlled to
inspect water temperatures, pressures/depths, and salinity, acidity and
water purity levels.

