Received: from exchfe2.cs.cornell.edu (exchfe2.cs.cornell.edu [128.84.97.28])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.7/8.11.7/M-3.12a) with ESMTP id h82Dc7j25092
	for <egs@unix.cucs>; Tue, 2 Sep 2003 09:38:07 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from mail.cs.cornell.edu ([128.84.97.28]) by exchfe2.cs.cornell.edu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.6713);
	 Tue, 2 Sep 2003 09:37:48 -0400
Received: from dhcp98-166.cs.cornell.edu ([128.84.98.166]) by mail.cs.cornell.edu over TLS secured channel with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.6713);
	 Tue, 2 Sep 2003 09:37:47 -0400
Subject: 615 PAPER 1
From: Hitesh Ballani <hitesh@cs.cornell.edu>
To: egs+615@cs.cornell.edu
Content-Type: text/plain
Organization: 
Message-Id: <1062509878.5785.19.camel@dhcp98-166.cs.cornell.edu>
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Ximian Evolution 1.2.2 (1.2.2-5) 
Date: 02 Sep 2003 09:37:58 -0400
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-OriginalArrivalTime: 02 Sep 2003 13:37:47.0847 (UTC) FILETIME=[65AD8570:01C37157]

The first paper discusses the DSDV Routing, a modification of the DV
routing algorithm which ensures loop free routes and as far as I can
infer, solves the count to infinity problem.While each node has a
routing table giving the next hop for all the nodes in the 
network, the most important modification in this is the inclusion of
sequence numbers issued by the destination itself( unless the link is
broken in which case it is issued by the intermediate node and is odd).
This allows a node to differentiate between old and new updates leading
to avoidance of stale and loop free routes.Also, a node need not send
out it's table ( full dump ) each time it advertises, an incremental
dump of the changed sequence numbers and metrics suffices most of the 
time. Besides,the dynamic nature of the network necessitates a dampening
of the fluctuations which is done by keeping information about settling
times in the table and delaying sequence number change, etc.
advertisements until after the delay time expires( although 
broken links are announced immediately).

For loop freeness it uses the concept of the sink tree - formed using
the next hop indicator's for a particular destination. In this tree, as
we go up from the leaves to the root, the sequence number is non-
decreasing. But for a loop to exist, a node must loop back to a node
with lesser or equal sequence number, so the only common 
criteria is that the 2 nodes should have equal sequence number's, in
which case the lower metric condition ensures that no loop is formed.

While the concepts of sequence numbers and dampening seem to be very
exciting but evidence for the same is needed. And I feel that despite
all their efforts the algorithm will still have a convergence time on
the higher side, especially if the  network is very dynamic and is of a
large size . A good idea during simulation would be to determine the
actual effects of dampening on b/w utilization and convergence.
And then there is the issue of scalability.

The second paper discusses the DSR algorithm which is a source routing
technique adapted for wireless networks. It scores over conventional
routing protocols like DV as it is reactive and hence does not require
periodic broadcasting of advertisements. Since it is the source that
provides the path to the destination so each node maintains a 
route cache and if the desired route is not in the cache, it is obtained
using a route discovery protocol - the reply for which may come from the
destination or an intermediate node's cache. And since there are no
periodic updates to monitor missing links, so it is the route
maintenance procedure that monitor's the operation of the route and 
informs of routing errors. It also has a number of optimizations such as
the replies  from the cache, delays in the response to avoid congestion
and sending non-propagating requests. There is also piggybacking, not
only in route replies/errors but also route discoveries, and promiscuous
mode pick up of errors.

The loop avoidance in this case is simplified by the fact that it is a
source routing protocol, so the source can check for loops in the route.
And the formation of loops when hosts reply using their cache - i.e
replies formed using the route record and  the cache entry is checked
for by the individual hosts sending the reply.

One of the positive aspects of the protocol is that they have not
assumed the  bi-directionality of the links. However the simulations
have been run for  a small number of nodes and a small number of hosts
(linearly scalable) and is  full of variables whose values seem to have
been chosen arbitrarily. Laying out these  variables and defining their
effect on the performance could be the next step. Besides, security is
an aspect that has not been in both these papers- the fact 
that the piggybacked route discovery is spoofed by an intermediate node
replying from it's cache could be dangerous.


The third paper discusses the AODV, which could be termed as a hybrid
routing protocol  as it couples reactive features such as dynamically
obtaining information for routes on demand with proactive features such
as HELLO messages to get local information. It is a variation of the DV
routing protocol - so each node knows just the next hop for a
destination but the variation here is that this information is
maintained only for active routes, i.e. routes that have been demanded.
As in source routing, routes are obtained through path discovery only 
when a packet has to be sent, but the entire path is not specified by
the source which could be a big plus in large networks. Summarily, the
protocol has RREQ's (route requests) - to request for routes, RREP's (
route replies ) - as replies from intermediate/destination nodes and
HELLO messages or local broadcasts for neighbour discovery. Hence, when
a route is demanded, a RREQ is sent by the source to it's neighbours and
so on, each of which maintains information about the reverse path while
forwarding the request until some node with a higher sequence number for
that destination replies which is sent along the remembered reverse
route. Also, it uses the concept of sequence number's in order to
maintain most recent routing information between nodes and ensure
loop-freeness - as the sequence number's cannot decrease along an active
path, so the existence of a loop would violate the property that for the
same sequence number, the path with a shorter metric is preferred. And
while the authors must be commended for the scalability and the fact
that they have tried to determine the optimal value of the different 
parameters instead of some magic numbers, but the simulation scenario
has a lot of randomness, not necessarily present in a real system.
Besides, since the protocol seems to be a combination of the better
halves of the DSDV and the DSR, figures comparing the three and bringing
out empirical evidence for the superiority of the AODV would have been
nice.


