Received: from postoffice8.mail.cornell.edu (postoffice8.mail.cornell.edu [132.236.56.38])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.7/8.11.7/M-3.12a) with ESMTP id h82GU7j12099
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 2 Sep 2003 12:30:08 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from uportal0 (uportal0.cit.cornell.edu [132.236.229.130])
	by postoffice8.mail.cornell.edu (8.12.9/8.12.6) with ESMTP id h82GU7Xm025839
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 2 Sep 2003 12:30:07 -0400 (EDT)
Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 12:30:07 -0400 (EDT)
Message-ID: <12437310.1062520205426.JavaMail.webber@uportal0>
From: Vijay Kumar                                                                                                                      <vk66@cornell.edu>
To: egs@cs.cornell.edu
Subject: 615 PAPER 1
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: uPortal WEB email client 2.10

DSDV
---------------
The Destination Sequenced Distace-Vector (DSDV) uses the distance-vector routing(classic Bellman-Ford) to maintain 

connectivity information. DSDV improves on the class Bellman-Ford routing algorithm by eliminating loops.  Every node is 

required to maintain route table entry for every destination, which consists of a sequence number, destination address, next 

hop(mobilie station) and number of hops to that destination(metric).  Consistency of the route table is maintained by frequent 

broadcast and freshness of sequence numbers.  Mobile stations are required to advertise to the network any signicant changes 

in their neighborhood.  Fluctuations in the network are reduced by allowing for a settling time before route changes are 

announced, unless the change is as significant as the removal of a node.  

  A node updates its route table entry only under the following circumstances
o) The new entry has a newer sequence number.
o) The new entry has a better metric and the sequence numbers are same.
  This ensures that the network is loop free and network bandwidth is conserved.  


pros:-
	o) New mobile stations are immediately discovered.

cons:-
	o) The DSDV algorithm is not well suited for large network(large number of mobile stations) with frequent movement of 

mobile stations.  The space required to maintain the route table entry is O(n^2) as each node has to maintain all possible 

routes to a destination and only choose the minimum in that set for routing.  Also frequent movement means frequent updates 

and consumption of valuable bandwidth.  This also means higher power consumption both of which are at premium in a mobile 

network.


DSR
---------------
The Dynamic Source Routing(DSR) improves on the DSDV by discovering routes to destination only on demand.  This reduces the 

memory and bandwidth requirement which are at premium in a mobile station.  Whenever a mobile station wants to communicate 

with another one it initiates a Route Discovery by sending a route request packet.  Every route request packet contains 

<initiator address, destination address, request id>.  Each mobile station forwards the packet to the next neighbor if the 

packet was not meant for itself and adds itself to the route record of the packet.  This also constructs the reverse path to 

the source.  

  The DSR applies several optimizations to the basic algorithm

o) Route cache and learning:-  Mobile stations can learn about paths to the intermediate participating nodes while the packet 

completes the cirutous path from host to destination and back.  Cached routes can reduce the time of route discovery.

o) Promiscusous learning:-  
	- Other mobile hosts not directly participating in the route discovery can also learn about the path since the medium 

of transmission is broadcast.  
	- Promiscous listening can also help nodes discover shorter routes whenever they appear in the network.
	- Route errors discovered by one node can help other nodes remove unreacheable nodes from their cache entries.


  Loops are avoided by avoiding retransmits of route discovery packets if the id of the node is already present in route 

discvoery path contained in the packet.


Pros:- 
	o) Routes are discovered dynamically which saves network bandwidth, power, memory.
	o) Promiscuous mode helps reduce route discoveries.

Cons:-
	o) New mobile stations are not immediately discovered.  This can though be overcome by sending a Route discovery
           to a mobile host that is known not to exist.
	o) May not work well if the route paths are long as the route discovery packet has to accomodate all the nodes
participating in the route discovery.  



AODV
----------------
	Ad-hoc On-Demand Distance Vector Routing ( AODV ) combines the DSDV and DSR to obtain better bandwidht usage, local 

connectivity and memory usage of mobile network.  AODV uses dynamic route discovery just like in DSR, although local 

connectivity information is readily available since nodes are required to send hello messages to one another.  Whenever a node 

launches a route discvoery to an unknown host using Route Request packets( RREQ) the intermediate hosts retransmit a Route 

Reply Packet(RREP) back to the source.  This helps setup forward and return paths dynamically.  Also the packet sizes are 

significantly less when compared to DSR as the packets need not store the entire path in its header.

	The route tables store source sequence numbers, destinations sequence numbers and a route expiration timer.  The 

expiration timer helps purge reverse paths whenever the nodes do not lie on the path from source to destination.  The sequence 

numbers help maintain a loop free path.


Pros:-
	o) Uses the least resources of the 3 algorithms
		- reduced packet size
		- reduced memory and network activity using 'route request expiration timer'
	o) local connectivity information readily available and link breakages can be immediately broadcast to interested 

nodes.


Cons:-
	o) Assumes symmetric links

