Received: from Inbox ([140.247.122.114])
	by frank.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with SMTP id WAA03458;
	Mon, 6 Aug 2001 22:41:21 -0400
From: Chip Coldwell <coldwell@frank.harvard.edu>
Message-Id: <200108070241.WAA03458@frank.harvard.edu>
To: bike-diary@frank.harvard.edu
Subject: Bike Diary #13
Date: Tue, 31 Jul 2001 20:33 -0400

Day 39
Date Tuesday July 31, 2001
Layover day

Took another weather layover day after a ten mile false start.  As usual, the
weather appeared to be clearing at about 10:30 AM ... the sun always comes
out right around check-out time at the motel.  So I felt compelled to at least
give it a try.  I got about five miles out of town when "Big Sky Country"
lived up to its reputation and presented me with a clear view of some weather
that was definitely not messing around.  This time I have no regrets about 
turning back: it rained steady all day.

I mostly spent the day hanging out with Scott the eastbounder, who also
decided not to move today.

Havre tomorrow for sure.

Day 40
Distance: 94 miles
Moving average speed: 13.8 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Arrived at 3:45 PM
Overnight in H. Earl Clack Campground (city fairgrounds), Havre, MT
Latitude 48 d 33 m 22 s N
Longitude 109 d 42 m 32 s W
Cumulative distance: 3014 miles (NB, includes 10 miles from false start yesterday)

I got an early start, and the wind was more or less cooperative today, even favorable
in stretches although mostly calm until about 3:00 PM when it built up to a pretty
strong westerly.  I was practically in Havre by then, so it didn't matter much.  I also
had my second mechanical failure of the trip: a flat tire a little bit east of Havre,
coming after 3005 miles without a single flat.  I repaired the tire and contemplated
replacing it (the tread is pretty worn now), but decided not to just yet.  If there's
another flat soon, then I will replace it.

US 2 turns back into a miserable road for cycling west of Fort Belknap Agency, MT,
where traffic on state road 66 from Billings, MT joins.  There are two lanes, no shoulder,
and a 70 mph speed limit and a bunch of REALLY inconsiderate Montana drivers on
the road.  I think they're still bitter about the failure of their experiment with having no
speed limits at all.  It's strange that although Montana and North Dakota share a border,
they have entirely different attitudes toward sharing the road with bicycles.
My favorite Montana manuever is the one where some guy in the oncoming lane decides
to pass the car in front of him despite the bicycle (me) in the opposing lane, so you get
this situation where there is a car coming at you head-on at about 80 mph and you have
nowhere to go but the ditch.

Speaking of Montana drivers, I saw some really poignant arrangments of roadside crosses
today: twice there were seven crosses sharing one signpost, and one overpass over the
railroad just east of Dodson had played host to no fewer than three separate accidents
killing a total of five people (two, two and one).

I logged my 3000th mile today.  Most folks I talk to figure that 3000 miles should
have carried me all the way from Boston to Seattle, but it's more like 75% of the way
there.  I blame frequent flyer programs for this geographic distortion.  Too many people
are basing their distance estimates on how many frequent flyer miles they would get
from flying from Boston to Seattle, forgetting that 1) planes can take a much more direct
route and 2) aviators always navigate with nautical miles, which are 15% longer than
statute miles.

But it is starting to feel like I'm putting a dent in it anyway.

Now after setting up a schedule for myself based on the Empire Builder, I find that due
to my layover day yesterday I am now behind schedule, just like the Empire Builder so
often is.  However, like Amtrak, I padded my schedule, so if there are no further delays
I should still wake up in Whitefish on the morning of my father's arrival.  Speaking of
the Empire Builder, the eastbound train passed me just west of Chinook at 1:52 PM
today.  It should have left Havre, 21 miles farther west, at 1:32 PM, so it looks like
today was a good day for Amtrak.

My companion from Williston, ND to Cut Bank, MT is the Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Railroad, in particular the part that used to be the main line of the Great Northern Railway
(which merged with the Northern Pacific, the Spokane, Portland and Seattle and the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy to form the Burlington Northern in the '70s, then the Burlington
Northern merged with the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe to form the Burlington Northern
Santa Fe about two years ago).  There is a great deal of traffic on this line, which follows
US 2 very closely in places (or, more accurately, US 2 follows the main line of the Great
Northern, since certainly the railroad was there first).  It is generally possible to get the
engineer to toot the horn for you if he sees you and you make the universal
hand-pulling-whistle-cord gesture from the bicycle.

I spent quite alot of time talking to a BNSF freight conductor and a friend of his in front
of a supermarket in Havre.  They tried to convice me to make a side trip to the Rocky
Boys Indian Reservation about 20 miles away where a pow-wow is starting tomorrow.
Apparently this particular pow-wow is one of the biggest in the country and draws dancers
from all over the US and Canada.  If I hadn't already soaked up my one-day pad in the
schedule waiting out the rain in Malta, I definitely would go, but as things are, probably
not.  The frieght conductor said he does the run from Havre to Whitefish over Marias
pass twice a week, and there's no comparison between Marias pass and the Going-to-the-
Sun Road (the latter is far more spectacular), so I guess I have made up my mind over
which pass I will cross the continental divide.

Unfortunately, it didn't occur to me until after our conversation that I should have asked
the freight conductor if he had any extra BNSF employee timetables.

Day 41
Date Thursday August 2, 2001
Distance: 104 miles
Moving average speed: 11.6 mph
Left at 8:15 AM
Arrived at 7:00 PM
Overnight in O'Haire Motel, Shelby, MT
Latitude 48 d 30 m 13 s N
Longitude 111 d 51 m 31 s W
Cumulative distance: 3118 miles

Today was one of the hardest days of the ride, although I can't figure out why.  The
distance was not that much longer than usual, the wind was not much stronger
than usual (15 mph from the southwest), and although I gained about 800 feet in
elevation during the day, that's not a whole lot of climbing.  Maybe I was just
having a bad day.

Most of the locomotives passing me on the BNSF are very modern 6000 horsepower
units (mostly DASH9-44CW's and SD70MAC's with a smattering of 3000 hp SD40's);
the type of locomotive you would expect to see on the main line of a class 1 railroad.
I have seen a new locomotive arrangement: BNSF is running unit trains of covered
hoppers (grain, I suppose) which are incredibly long.  They use four of their 6000 hp
locomotives to move these things, and they don't go alot faster than I do uphill.
(An aside: as locomotives grow more and more powerful, freight trains don't get any
faster, just longer.  Such are the economics of bulk transportation, I suppose.)  The
interesting thing is that they put two units at the front of the train, and the other two
at the end, controlled remotely from the front (or at least I hope so, as they are
unmanned).

One of these unit grain trains passed me going west as I was working my way
upgrade between Devon and Dunkirk, MT.  As usual, I made the universal hand-pulling-
whistle-cord gesture, and immediately the engineer responded with a pretty good
rendition of shave-and-a-haircut-two-bits.  Immediately after, the window on the
left side of the locomotive (the side I was on) was opened and somebody started
frantically waving at me through it.  I believe it may well have been the frieght
conductor I spoke to yesterday.  At least, I know that since the engineer sits on the
right side of the locomotive, it was definitely a freight conductor who was waving
at me.

The eastbound Empire Builder passed me at 12:20 PM in Rudyard, MT.  If it left
Shelby, MT at 11:20 AM on schedule, then the intervening 63 miles took an hour,
which is credible.  The westbound Empire Builder passed me in Dunkirk at 6:20 PM.
If it took it 10 minutes to cover the 11 miles to Shelby then it arrived at 6:30 PM,
an hour and ten minutes late.  So it was a mixed day for Amtrak.

Day 42
Date: Friday August 3, 2001
Distance: 91 miles
Moving average speed: 11.9 mph
Left at 8:30 AM
Arrived at 6:30 PM
Overnight in St Mary Campground, Glacier National Park near St Mary, MT
Latitude 48 d 45 m 15 s N
Longitude 113 d 26 m 33 s W
Cumulative distance: 3209 miles

Finally finally FINALLY managed to ride my way out of the great plains today
after 1000 miles and 13 days of some of the most boring real estate this
country has to offer.  I can think of no good reason for bicycling in the great
plains except that they are in the way.  As if they wanted to make absolutely
sure that I would have no regrets about leaving, the plains provided me with
yet another typical afternoon southwesterly, 20-25 mph.  I thought I had a
trick up my sleeve which was that my last ten miles into St Mary on US 89
would be mostly north, putting the wind at my back.  Little did I know that
on US 89 the wind would hardly be relevant.

Adventure Cycling provides two possible routes from Cut Bank, MT to West Glacier,
MT, one that goes north into Canada and visits the Waterton Lakes before traversing
the Going to the Sun Highway, the other takes US 2 over Marias Pass.  I didn't want
to miss the Going to the Sun Highway, but I didn't have time or inclination for
Waterton Lakes, so I freelanced my own route from Cut Bank to St Mary which was
84 miles shorter and didn't hit any particularly bad roads.

My route took me through the town of Starr School in the Blackfeet indian reservation,
which has to be one of the most depressing towns I've passed through.  Some time
ago I noticed the pattern that the more hopeless a person's outlook is, the meaner
the dog he gets to compensate.  If things are really bleak, then what you need is a whole
pack of really means dogs, and don't bother putting up a fence so that they don't chase
whatever happens to pass in the road.

I'm undoubtably going to lower myself in the esteem of some of my readers who are
dog lovers with what follows, but I think I might as well just come out and admit it:
I hate dogs.  I don't fear them; fear implies a certain respect.  I just hate them.  The dog
has to be one of the stupidest creatures on the planet, convinced that every piece of real
estate he ever pissed on is his.  The concept of a public right-of-way traversing his territory
is too subtle for the puny canine mind.  These ignorant creatures are convinced that they
are protecting their domain by coming out in hot pursuit of passing cyclists, but the net
effect of all this sturm und drang is just the same as if the worthless animal had never
ventured out.

I often daydream about countermeasures.  Doggie treats laced with deadly poison?  Too
slow.  Lure the dog into traffic?  Too risky.  .357 magnum?  Unfortunately, the dog's
owner might have one too.  These days, I don't even speed up when the dogs come
out in pursuit: I'm so bored with the whole scenario.

Anyway, after my adventures with the dogs in Starr School, I reached US 89 ready to
get in front of that southwest wind.  I immediately hit a wall: US 89 is the first road
definitely off the great plains and in the Front Range.  The tailwind I was counting on
to blow me into St Mark was nothing but a breeze on my back as I crept uphill.
Fortunately, the last five miles into St Mary were a bodacious downhill, but a
tailwind could hardly have made any impact on the speed that me and my 100
pound machine went down it.

Day 43
Date: Saturday August 4, 2001
Distance: 81 miles
Moving average speed: 12.3 mph
Left at 7:30 AM
Summit at 9:30 AM
Arrived at 4:00 PM
Overnight in The Bunkhouse Traveler's Inn and Hostel, Whitefish, MT
Latitude 48 d 24 m 44 s N
Longitude 114 d 20 m 24 s W
Cumulative distance: 3290 miles

Today was supposed to be the Big Day of the ride: I was going to reach the highest
point on my trip, Logan Pass on the Going-to-the-Sun Highway at 6646 feet.  I had
to get an early start because of bicycle restrictions on the GTTS Highway, and I was
all psyched up for a big climb.

The sad truth of it is the Going-to-the-Sun is a bunny hill.  A cupcake.  Not a difficult
climb at all. Six miles of a 6% grade: big deal.  It looked like the eastbound trip would
have been twice as long climbing, but the grade was the same.  I would take the
Going-to-the-Sun Highway in either direction over the ride from Northampton to Lenox
across the Berkshire Hills in Massachusetts.  The Berkshires are real climbing.

Now a word about those restrictions that the Park Service has put on bicycles on the
Going-to-the-Sun Highway.  Specifically, they are that from June 15 until Labor Day
between 11 AM and 4 PM all bicycles are prohibited from the seven miles along Lake
McDonald and eastbound bicycles from the twelve miles from Logan Creek to Logan
Pass (the climb), i.e. exactly where and when you are most likely to want to ride
your bicycle in the park.  For eastbounders, this effectively means you have to summit
before 11 AM.  For westbounders, this effectively means that if you are planning to
spend less than a full day in the park you will have to spend alot less than a full day
in the park: as a practical matter you have to be out of the park by 11 AM.

I reached the summit of Logan Pass at 9:30 AM, 18 miles and two hours after leaving
my campsite in St Mary.  It was 10:52 AM when I entered the restricted zone along
Lake McDonald on the other side, 24 miles farther down the highway.  There was no
way I was going to sit there and wait for five hours, so I wound up the mule for all
it was worth and made it seven miles to the other side of the restricted zone at 11:18
AM, at which point I was two miles from the exit from the park.

So that was it: I had four hours in the park.  Nice mountains, nice lake, but I gotta go
because the Park Service won't let me ride my bicycle on the Going-to-the-Sun Highway.
I think those restrictions are completely backwards, of course (it's the damn automobiles
that should be restricted), but since bicycles are vastly outnumbered, and since we know
it is easier to discriminate against minorities, in the interest of the convenience of those
who no longer have the strength to travel under their own power those of us who do
are practically excluded from Glacier National Park.

Whitefish, MT is quite the quintessential Rocky Mountain resort town: lots of SUVs, fancy
mountain bikes with elaborate suspension systems (ick), street fairs, coffee houses, internet
cafes and of course the obligatory micro-brewery (Black Star).  This place is lousy with
roof-rack cyclists (for those unfamiliar with the lingo, a roof-rack cyclist is one who puts
his bicycle on the roof rack on his automobile and drives it 600 miles to ride a 60 mile van
supported tour).  I suppose that given enough time Whitefish, MT will evolve into a carbon
copy of Boulder, CO.

Day 44
Date: Sunday August 5, 2001
Distance: 64 miles
Moving average speed: 13.8 mph
Left at 12:00 noon
Arrived at 5:00 PM
Overnight in Rexford Bench Campground (USFS) near Rexford, MT
Latitude 48 d 53 m 59 s N
Longitude 115 d 9 m 22 s W
Cumulative distance: 3354 miles

I spent most of the morning waiting for my father's train to come into Whitefish.
It was scheduled to depart Whitefish at 7:26 AM, it didn't arrive until 10:10 AM
and it departed twenty minutes later, more than three hours late.  Apparently it
had been three hours late leaving Seattle, its point of origin, because the westbound
train whose equipment comprised this eastbound train had been late getting into
Seattle and they couldn't turn it around in time.  Clearly, there is a vicious cycle
at work here.  What a way to run a railroad.

Anyway, the old man arrived intact and reasonably well rested so after eating an
early lunch/late breakfast in Whitefish It seemed like there was nothing else to do
but press on and try to make the most of what was left of the day.  The weather
was perfect, winds mostly favorable, and surroundings a welcome relief from the
plains.  Dad keeps up very well for a man of sixty; I pull ahead a bit on ascents
but otherwise things are pretty much even.

Day 45
Date: Monday August 6, 2001
Distance: 82 miles
Moving average speed: 13.0 mph
Left at 8:45 PM
Arrived at 5:30 PM
Overnight in Ranch Motel, Troy, MT
Latitude 48 d 27 m 10 s N
Longitude 115 d 53 m 8 s W
Cumulative distance: 3436 miles

West of Whitefish, MT, the Northern Tier route does a series of long meanders
north and then back south as it tries to follow rivers (and the lakes created by
damming them) through the mountains to find the levellest route west.  It almost
seems as if the Adventure Cycling Association, headquartered in Missoula, MT,
wants to prolong your stay in their home state.

We spent yesterday going almost due north along US 93, only to spend most of
today working  back south again on state road 37.  State road 37 follows the shore
of Lake Koocanusa, which was created by damming the Kootenai river near Libby,
MT.  It's a very pretty route, but by flooding the river valley the Army Corps of
Engineers made it impossible for it to be a very level route.  The road is high up on
the hills that used to be above the valley, and every time it crosses a creek (which
was formerly a tributary of the river but now feeds the lake) there is a long descent
followed by the corresponding ascent afterwards.  These are exactly the sort of
conditions that amplify differences in strength between cyclists.

One often hears novice cyclists say something like "I can keep up on level ground,
but not in the hills", or more recently all the sports commentators were remarking that
Lance Armstrong would have to make up his time defecit during the mountain stages
of the Tour de France if he wanted to have a hope of winning.  It would almost seem
that climing hills is an entirely difference process from running over level ground,
perhaps using different muscles or different technique.  This is, of course, pure bunk.

You can understand why less powerful cyclists can keep up on level ground but not
on hills if you can understand freshman physics.  First of all, to debunk a popular
myth, what matters in determining how fast you can propel a bicycle is not the amount
of force you can exert with your legs.  You can always choose a lower gear and spin
with a higher cadence to get the same power with less force.  That is lemma 1, that
what determines the speed of the bicycle is the product of force times velocity, i.e. the
power, that the cyclist can produce.

Now consider the situation on level ground.  On level ground, the force that limits your
speed is due to wind resistance, which is a force that grows as the velocity squared.  The
power required to overcome wind resistance is the product of force times velocity and
therefore grows proportional to the velocity cubed.  Thus the velocity grows as the cube
root of the power: a cyclist needs to be eight times more powerful in order to be twice
as fast on level ground.

The situation on hills is a completely different one.  On hills, the force that limits your
speed is just your weight (sum of the weights of bicycle, rider and load), which is a 
constant independent of velocity.  Therefore, to go twice as fast on hills, you only need
to be twice as powerful (c.f. factor of eight for wind resistance).

Thus just from physics you would expect differences in strength to translate into large
differences in speed on hills, but small differences in speed on level ground.  Notice that
this analysis has completely neglected the benefit that less powerful cyclists can get from
drafting more powerful cyclists on level ground which I suppose can often make up for
most if not all of the difference.

Why do I bring this up now?  Well, the old man had a bit of a struggle on state road 37,
but he persevered valiantly and didn't complain too much.  It takes a week or two on the
road to really get seasoned, unfortunately I guess he'll be seasoned just about in time for
our arrival in Seattle ....

