Received: from memphis.ece.cornell.edu (memphis.ece.cornell.edu [128.84.239.87])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.3/8.11.3/M-3.7) with ESMTP id f8PFgmq19586
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 25 Sep 2001 11:42:48 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from mill (mill.ee.cornell.edu [128.84.236.64])
	by memphis.ece.cornell.edu (8.11.6/8.11.2) with ESMTP id f8PFgl601646
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 25 Sep 2001 11:42:47 -0400
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2001 11:35:14 -0400 (EDT)
From: Prince Samar <samar@ece.cornell.edu>
X-Sender: samar@mill.ee.cornell.edu
To: egs@CS.Cornell.EDU
Subject: 615 PAPER 10
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.4.21.0109251134390.4356-100000@mill.ee.cornell.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=X-UNKNOWN
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from QUOTED-PRINTABLE to 8bit by sundial.cs.cornell.edu id f8PFgmq19586


10) Associativity-Based Routing for Ad hoc  Mobile networks.

This paper presents a novel approach to routing in "conference" sized
mobile ad hoc networks with a goal of maximizing the route lifetime. The
protocol is on-demand and is claimed to be free from loops, deadlocks and
packet duplicates and has scalable memory requirements. The protocol uses
the associativity property to exploit the spatial and temporal
relationships of the network in order to construct long-lived routes which
would further require less maintenance and thus higher throughput.

Each node maintains a Neighboring Table (NT) which contains information
about the stability of the node's links with its neighbors in the form of
Associativity 'ticks'. Each node transmits beacons at regular interval,
updating the tick-count of its neighbors as well as the link quality. When
a route is needed by the source, it initiates a route query by flooding
the network with the BQ packets. These BQ packets accumulate the route,
associativity ticks and route relaying load as they travel through the
network. Eventually, a few of these BQ control packets reach the
destination. The destination then decided on the best route depending on
the information on route stability and congestion as gathered in the BQ
packet. The best route is chosen and a REPLY sent back, while the rest of
the found routes simply time-out and expire. The Route Re-Construction
(RRC) phase tries to maintain routes in case a link in the route to the
destination breaks. For this, depending on whether the node that has moved
away lies in the Upper Arm or the Lower Arm of the Intermediate Nodes, a
limited local query is initiated.

The author also introduces a Dynamic Cell Size Adjustment Scheme (DCSAS)
which changes the transmission power of a node if it in a congested
environment. DCSAS tries to reduce the transmission range to exclude
inactive neighbors but include all currently active neighbors.

Comments:  

- This paper introduces the new and interesting concept of property of
associativity between nodes in an ad hoc network. The protocol strives to
select the route with the best known stability by measuring the
associativity ticks of each of the intermediate nodes. However use of this
property is totally dependent on the mobility pattern of the nodes in the
network. It is implicitly assumed that there would always be enough
"stationary" nodes so that a stable route to the destination can be found.
In a highly mobile network with few resting nodes, the protocol may not
provide any benefit at all.

- In order to justify his claims about dormant nodes in the network, the
author provides data about 52 badge wearers in a "computer laboratory".
But the real scenarios where ad hoc networks may actually be deployed
could be very much different (much more mobile and restless) than a
laboratory where a person comes just to spend some time staring at a
computer monitor.

- If the destination has moved only one more hop away from its current
upstream node, a lot of control traffic may be wasted as the protocol
conservatively tries to obtain a shorter or equal-length route to the
destination. As the RRQ backtracks, a lot of "area" of the network that
has already been "covered" by the previous LQs is queried again, resulting
in wastage of resources. Also the choice of half-way node to switch from a
LQ to a BQ has not been explained.

- The simulation results do give insights into the working of the
protocol, but still a lot is missing. The paper contains only migration
based results which are good for ¨stress-testing" the protocol, but does
not consider random, real-like cases. The number of nodes are less (30)
and no results about the amount of control traffic generated are
presented.

- The passive acknowledgment scheme would work only in a single, broadcast
channel environment.

- The protocol concentrates on providing a single "good" path. Hence it
cannot support multi-path routing.

