Received: from localhost (djj@localhost)
	by io.harvard.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3) with ESMTP id MAA07912
	for <scw@io>; Tue, 25 Sep 2001 12:36:45 -0400 (EDT)
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2001 12:36:45 -0400
From: Daniel Jacob <djj@io.harvard.edu>
To: Steve Wofsy <scw@io.harvard.edu>
Subject: INTEX text for NACP document
Message-ID: <Pine.SGI.4.33.0109251226510.7399-100000@io>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII


Hi - here's a 1-2 pager I just wrote on INTEX for the NACP document.
It really is my own spin on what INTEX should be - I think (of course!)
that it's much better than what's in the rather dreadful existing white
paper.  I'll need to clear it with the other INTEX folks, and I'll do
that now, but I wanted to get it to you so that you have a
placeholder (and if you're in a major hurry to finalize the NACP
document, go ahead and use it).  With a few pushes like this I hope to
bring the proper vision into INTEX!  I'll be back with a revised version
after I get the feedback from the INTEX folks.   Daniel

**********************
INTEX-NA: Intercontinental Chemical Transport Experiment- North America

INTEX-NA is a NASA Global Tropospheric Experiment (GTE) aircraft mission
focused on quantifying the sources, sinks, and import/export of
environmentally important chemicals on the scale of the continental United
States.  Chemicals of interest include ozone and its precursors, aerosols
and their precursors, and long-lived greenhouse gases.  INTEX-NA will use
two NASA aircraft, the DC-8 (ceiling 12 km) and the P-3B (ceiling 7 km)
operating along the Atlantic and Pacific seaboards as well as over the
continental United States.  Two deployments are planned, in summer 2004
(Phase A) and spring 2006 (Phase B).  Sampling strategies will be guided
by information from satellite observations and atmospheric models.
Coordination will be sought  with NACP and with other experimental
programs focused on U.S. air quality (NOAA, DOE), and transatlantic
transport (EEC).  Validation of Aura satellite observations and scientific
application of these observations to address mission objectives will
represent an important component of the INTEX-NA activity.

INTEX-NA will follow an experimental design in which bottom-up, a priori
knowledge of chemical sources and sinks on the scale of the United States
can be tested and improved in a top-down manner with atmospheric
observations.  This design requires an integrated approach where synthesis
of the aircraft observations with measurements from other platforms
(satellites, sondes, surface sites) and 3-D atmospheric chemistry models
is pursued at all stages of mission design, execution, and interpretation.
The aircraft flights will be directed at optimal sampling of the
continental boundary layer (CBL), of the exchange between the CBL and the
free troposphere (FT), and of the synoptic-scale flow across the
coastlines and over the neighboring oceans.  The aircraft will carry
high-performance instrumentation for measuring a wide range of chemical
species, building on the capabilities developed for previous GTE missions.
These include (1) extensive in situ measurements, (2) eddy correlation
flux measurements from the P-3B aircraft, (3) remote sensing (DIAL)
measurements of ozone and aerosols aboard the DC-8 aircraft.  The optimal
sampling strategy to enable top-down analysis will be developed prior to
the mission using atmospheric model simulations and prior observational
knowledge.  It will be implemented during mission execution through the
use of 3-D model forecasts and satellite observations, and through
coordination with other field programs including NACP.

Phase (A) of INTEX-NA will prioritize the eastern U.S. and outflow to the
North Atlantic.  Phase (B) will emphasize inflow from the Pacific.
However, both phases will extend their scope to the continental scale.
Sampling with the DC-8 will focus on the Atlantic and Pacific seaboards to
characterize continental-scale inflow/outflow, and will include
transcontinental transects aimed at quantifying large-scale chemical
gradients over the U.S. as well as transport involving Canada and Mexico.
Bangor and Seattle are planned as the principal operational bases of the
DC-8.  The P-3B will focus on regional-scale mapping of surface fluxes and
characterization of CBL-FT exchange over the United States.  It will be
based at interior sites in the U.S.; a site in Wisconsin is presently
under consideration.   The deployment of the P-3B will be conducted with
deliberate intent to maximize opportunities for collaboration with NACP
and other field programs towards addressing the INTEX-NA mission
objectives.

Close coordination between INTEX-NA and NACP is indeed a compelling
investment to augment the scientific returns of both programs.  A common
objective is the characterization of carbon sources and sinks over the
U.S.  The NACP measurement platforms and biogeochemical modeling resources
will be of considerable value for INTEX-NA.  The extensive chemical tracer
observations together with CO2 and methane available from the INTEX-NA
aircraft will offer powerful constraints for carbon sources and sinks.
The eddy correlation flux measurements and vertical sounding capabilities
of the  NASA P-3B aircraft will complement the smaller-scale mapping by
the NACP aircraft, while the continental-scale observations from the DC-8
will allow an integrated perspective on carbon budgets.  Such fruitful
coordination between INTEX-NA and NACP needs to be pursued actively at the
mission planning stage to lay the groundwork for successful execution.


