Received: from ipo2.ipoline.com (ns1.ipoline.com [209.5.72.1]) by
faraday.phys.psu.edu (8.6.12/8.6.12) with ESMTP id XAA25682; Mon, 8
Sep 1997 23:42:18 -0400 From: katirai@ipoline.com
Received: from pm4d29.ipoline.com (pm4d29.ipoline.com [209.5.73.119])
	by ipo2.ipoline.com (8.8.5/8.8.5) with SMTP id XAA35822;
	Mon, 8 Sep 1997 23:39:37 -0400
Date: Mon, 8 Sep 1997 23:39:37 -0400
Message-Id: <199709090339.XAA35822@ipo2.ipoline.com>
X-Sender: katirai@ipoline.com (Unverified)
X-Mailer: Windows Eudora Light Version 1.5.2
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
To: kuckert@x4u2.desy.de, rebhana@x4u2.desy.de, realem@vxcern.cern.ch,
        lerche@nxth04.cern.ch, tfybil@fy.chalmers.se, prp@howdy.wustl.edu,
        pathology@a1.mscf.upenn.edu, mushotzky@heasrc.dnet.nasa.gov,
        jrlee@phya.snu.ac.kr, terning@yalph2.bitnet,
        W.H.Maloyan;ifi@arminco.com;, nhc@cuphyf.phys.columbia.edu,
        zhu@cuphyf.phys.columbia.edu, rdm@cuphyg.phys.columbia.edu,
        liang@phys.psu.edu, randy@phys.psu.edu, lopez@phys.tamu.edu,
        lck@wuphys.wustl.edu, lewis@physcn.umontreal.ca,
        jruan@physics.adelaide.edu.au, seung@physics.att.com,
        tzeng@physics.att.com, ledou@physics.rutgers.edu,
        linde@physics.stanford.edu, sylju@physics.ucla.edu,
        sanko@physics.umr.edu, stern@physik.unizh.ch, tkurz@physik3.gwdg.de,
        nadal@physique.ens.fr, munsteg@yukawa.uni-muenster.de,
        katom@tkyvax.phys.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp, nishi@tkyvax.phys.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp,
        phfrom@nyx.uni-konstanz.de, orzaru@rz.uni-potsdam.de,
        peter@mozart.ucsc.edu
Subject: Important
Status: R

Hello,

This news release has just been distributed to media around the world. As a
scientist in the field, I urge you to investigate.

Best regards,
B. Katirai

				NEWS  RELEASE

	A scientific book has just come out that presents the case that Albert
Einstein, the man celebrated as one of the greatest scientific geniuses
ever, together with his works amounts to the greatest fraud of the century.
The book also contains a series of scientific discoveries which will
undoubtedly revolutionize the science of physics.

  "Revolution in Physics" by Bahram Katirai, a former admirer of Einstein,
examines the history behind Einstein's theories and uncovers a clear pattern
of fraud repeated in all of Einstein's papers. From Einstein's relativity
theories to his famous formula E=mc2, Katirai discovers and documents
repeated instances of stealing, misrepresentation, fabrication of evidence,
and mathematical manipulation and distortion.

   The centerpiece of "Revolution in Physics" is the concept of the 'ether'
(not to be mistaken with the ether in chemistry) which until the time of
Einstein all physicists such as Faraday, Maxwell and Lord Kelvin had come to
firmly believe in. They had concluded that ether is the medium by which
light propagates in space and that all the space between planets and even
within atoms is filled with ether. Numerous experiments proved that light in
ether is the same thing as sound in air. Based on the belief that
disturbances in ether create ether waves such as visible light, Hertz was
able to generate radio waves. This understanding that light is a vibration
of ether was replaced by Einstein's admittedly contradictory 'wave-particle
duality' theory in which light is a wave in all cases except in two cases
where Einstein with his mathematics claims that it is a particle. Katirai
surveys the unprecedented controversy throughout the 20th century among
scientists surrounding Einstein's rejection of ether, and with extensive
documentation he builds the case of how Einstein was able to hijack the
scientific community into believing that ether does not exist.

   Based on the understanding that ether exists, Katirai provides answers to
some of the most puzzling mysteries in physics. Whereas Einstein's lifelong
attempts to come up with a unified field theory ended in failure, Katirai
shows how the magnetic, electric and gravitational forces arise from
different currents of ether. By means of simple experiments and explanations
understandable to an elementary school student, he shows how each of these
forces is created by the motion of one of the sub-atomic particles in ether.
He reveals how Einstein's explanation of gravity as resulting from a bending
of space and time, buried in complicated mathematics that only a handful can
claim to understand, was an act of distortion that fooled the world. Katirai
further shows how the fast motion of an object in ether generates friction
and light waves just as the fast motion of an object in air generates sound
waves. The bright tail of a comet moving in ether is a phenomenon similar to
the tail-wave of a fast-moving motorboat in water. The author shows how
innumerable phenomena such as the magnetosphere of the earth, the discovery
of the solar wind, the Michelson Morley experiment and stellar aberration
conclusively prove the existence of ether. The book contains other
discoveries which will come to be regarded as some of the most important in
this century. 

	This 327 page book with over 270 footnotes representing almost
two decades of research and investigation by Katirai and written to be
understood by the general public, will prove to be of historical
importance.

	For further information or to purchase a copy of "Revolution
in Physics", please visit its web site at www.ipoline.com/~noor or
send an e-mail to the author at katirai@ipoline.com
