Received: from CS.Stanford.EDU (CS.Stanford.EDU [171.64.64.64])
	by robotics.Stanford.EDU (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id SAA00590
	for <suresh@robotics.stanford.edu>; Wed, 17 Sep 1997 18:52:20 -0700 (PDT)
Received: from listserv.nodak.edu (listserv.NoDak.edu [134.129.111.8])
	by CS.Stanford.EDU (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id SAA04932;
	Wed, 17 Sep 1997 18:29:03 -0700 (PDT)
Received: from listserv (134.129.111.8) by listserv.nodak.edu (LSMTP for Windows NT v1.1a) with SMTP id <0.2B6A2820@listserv.nodak.edu>; Wed, 17 Sep 1997 20:27:51 -0500
Received: from LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU by LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU (LISTSERV-TCP/IP
          release 1.8c) with spool id 82400 for THEORYNT@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU;
          Wed, 17 Sep 1997 20:27:48 -0500
Received: from listserv (134.129.111.8) by listserv.nodak.edu (LSMTP for
          Windows NT v1.1a) with SMTP id <0.29E50C10@listserv.nodak.edu>; Wed,
          17 Sep 1997 20:27:48 -0500
Received: from LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU by LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU (LISTSERV-TCP/IP
          release 1.8c) with spool id 82392 for THEORY-A@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU;
          Wed, 17 Sep 1997 20:27:47 -0500
Received: from usc.edu by listserv.nodak.edu (LSMTP for Windows NT v1.1a) with
          SMTP id <0.26D708C0@listserv.nodak.edu>; Wed, 17 Sep 1997 20:27:43
          -0500
Received: from pollux2.usc.edu (pollux2.usc.edu [128.125.253.192]) by usc.edu
          (8.8.4/8.7.2/usc) with ESMTP id SAA19775 for
          <theory-a@listserv.nodak.edu>; Wed, 17 Sep 1997 18:27:37 -0700 (PDT)
Received: (from ierardi@localhost) by pollux2.usc.edu (8.8.4/8.8.4/usc) id
          SAA23640 for theory-a@listserv.nodak.edu; Wed, 17 Sep 1997 18:27:37
          -0700 (PDT)
X-Sender: llf@master.di.fc.ul.pt
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
Approved-By:  Doug Ierardi <ierardi@POLLUX2.USC.EDU>
Approved-By:  Theory-A - TheoryNet World-Wide Events
              <THEORY-A@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU>
Message-ID:  <l03010d03b0454fe51b92@[192.67.76.36]>
Date:         Wed, 17 Sep 1997 18:27:37 PDT
Reply-To: Theory-A - TheoryNet World-Wide Events
              <THEORY-A@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU>,
        =?iso-8859-1?Q?Jos=E9?= Fiadeiro <llf@di.fc.ul.pt>
Sender: TheoryNet List <THEORYNT@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU>
From: =?iso-8859-1?Q?Jos=E9?= Fiadeiro <llf@di.fc.ul.pt>
Subject:      ETAPS'98 - call for submissions
Comments: To: THEORY-A@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU
To: THEORYNT@LISTSERV.NODAK.EDU
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by robotics.Stanford.EDU id SAA00590
Status: O
X-Status: 

                    CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS


                European Joint Conferences on
               Theory and Practice of Software


                         E T A P S  98


    Lisbon,  Portugal               March 30 - April 3, 1998




           http://www.di.fc.ul.pt/~llf/etaps98/


The European Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of
Software (ETAPS) is a new annual meeting covering a wide
range of topics in Software Science which will take place in
Europe each spring in the slot currently occupied by
CAAP/ESOP/CC and TAPSOFT. ETAPS is a loose and open
confederation of existing and new conferences and other events
which aims to become the primary European forum for
academic and industrial researchers working on topics
relating to Software Science.

Five main conferences and four satellite events have been
programmed for the 1998 edition of ETAPS. See the call for
papers below for the complete list.

ETAPS will also include an "Advanced Seminar", consisting of
a wide spectrum of talks by invited speakers, which will take
place in plenary sessions. The invited speakers for 1998 are:

       Kent Beck, First Class Software Inc., USA
       Randy Bryant, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
       Margaret Burnett, Oregon State University, USA
       Cliff Jones, Harlequin Ltd, UK
       Michael Mislove, Tulane University, USA
       Amir Pnueli, Weizmann Institute, Israel
       Gert Smolka, University of Saarbruecken, Germany

A call for system demos and tutorials is now open as well (see
below).




CALL FOR PAPERS

The call for papers is now open for the five main conferences of
ETAPS'98, with a submission deadline of October 6, 1997.

See the ETAPS web page (http://www.di.fc.ul.pt/~llf/etaps98/)
for more details about the scope and submission instructions of
each individual conference. Prospective authors who have no
access to WWW should use the e-mail address given for each
conference to obtain further information.


Foundations of Software Science and Computation Structures
(FoSSaCS)
------------------------------------------------------------
The scope of FoSSaCS is syntactic, algebraic, logical and
semantic methods for describing, analysing, transforming and
verifying programs and systems. The focus is on foundational
aspects of such methods rather than on their applications.

Topics include: computational and syntactic foundations of
Software Science, including basic objects in computation
processes, techniques for their manipulation, and their
algebraic and logical properties; transition systems and models
of concurrency, including calculi, semantics, logics and
algorithmic aspects; data structures and types, including
algebraic specification, polymorphism, and regular and
relational algebras; domain theory and denotational (fixed-
point) semantics, including ordered structures, topological
domains, domain equations, computable reals and semantics of
numerical computations.

Programme Committee: M. Nivat (France, chair), A. Arnold
(France, vice-chair), W. Thomas (Germany, vice-chair), V.
Bruyere (Belgium), Z. Esik (Hungary), J. Gabarro (Spain), N.
Klarlund (USA), F. Mignosi (Italy), P. Mosses (Denmark), D.
Niwinski (Poland), C. Palamidessi (Italy), A. Podelski
(Germany), J. Rutten (Netherlands), H. Seidl (Germany), A.
Sernadas (Portugal), C. Stirling (UK)

E-mail address: Maurice.Nivat@litp.ibp.fr


Fundamental Approaches to Software Engineering (FASE)
-----------------------------------------------------
To enhance software quality, the software production process
requires rigorous methods, firmly grounded on scientifically
justified techniques. Fundamental approaches are sought,
possibly integrating so-called formal and informal aspects,
providing the bridge between theory and practice and aimed at
producing engineering methods and tools for the various
phases of software development. FASE is intended to provide a
forum where fundamental approaches are presented,
compared and discussed.

Contributions are especially welcome on the following topics:
methods for the production of provably correct software, its
verification and evolution; formal methods and combination of
formalisms; integration of informal and formal methods; tools
and environments supporting rigorous approaches; case
studies of applications of formal and semiformal methods;
reports evaluating industrial experiences; rigorous
experimental studies of effectiveness and applicability of formal
methods; concepts and models for software specification,
development, verification and evolution; foundations and
frameworks of conceptual models; formal approaches for real-
time, concurrent, distributed and object-oriented systems;
specification, design and verification of hybrid systems.

Programme Committee: E. Astesiano (Italy, chair), M. Bidoit
(France), Z. Chao Chen (Macau), D. Craigen (Canada), H.
Ehrig (Germany), C. Ghezzi (Italy), H. Hussmann (Germany),
C. Jones (UK), T. Maibaum (UK), F. Orejas (Spain), G.
Renardel de Lavalette (Netherlands), D. Smith (USA), J. Wing
(USA), M. Wirsing (Germany)

E-mail address: fase98@disi.unige.it


European Symposium On Programming (ESOP)
----------------------------------------
This conference is devoted to fundamental issues concerning
programming languages and systems. Approaches to the
specification, analysis and implementation of languages and
systems are the main concern; papers should emphasise the
soundness and correctness of the approach.

Contributions which bridge the gap between theory and practice
are particularly welcome. Topics traditionally covered by ESOP
include: programming paradigms and their integration
(including functional, logic, concurrent and object-oriented);
semantics facilitating the formal development and
implementation of programming languages and systems;
advanced type systems (including polymorphism and
subtyping); program analysis (including abstract interpretation
and constraint systems); program transformation (including
partial evaluation and term rewriting); practical algorithms
based on theoretical developments.

Programme Committee: C. Hankin (UK, chair), J. de Bakker
(Netherlands), L. Cardelli (USA), A. Deutsch (France), R.
Giegerich (Germany), R. Glueck (Denmark), R. Gorrieri
(Italy), P. Hartel (UK), P. Lee (USA), H.R. Nielson (Denmark),
M. Odersky (Germany), A. Pettorossi (Italy), A. Porto
(Portugal), D. Sands (Sweden), D. Schmidt (USA)

E-mail address: clh@doc.ic.ac.uk


International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC)
------------------------------------------------------
CC is a forum for presentation and discussion of recent
developments in language processors and language design,
with an emphasis on practical methods and tools.

Topics include, but are not restricted to: compilation techniques
including parsing, type checking, code generation, and code
optimisation; interpretation; language-oriented editing; high-
level debugging; integrated programming environments;
processing of imperative, object-oriented, concurrent,
functional, and logic programming languages; compilation for
non-standard architectures; processing of query languages,
command languages, and application languages; interaction
between language design and implementation.

Programme Committee: K. Koskimies (Finland, chair), M.
Bartha (Canada), J. Bishop (South Africa), P. Fritzson
(Sweden), R. Gupta (USA), T. Gyimothy (Hungary), N. Horspool
(Canada), S. Jahnichen (Germany), U. Kastens (Germany), B.
Magnusson (Sweden), K. McKinley (USA), G. Riedewald
(Germany), W. Waite (USA), D. Watt (UK), R. Wilhelm
(Germany)

E-mail address: koskimie@cs.uta.fi


Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of
Systems (TACAS)
------------------------------------------------------------
Many similar tools and algorithms have been independently
developed in various areas of computer science like automata
and language theory, verification and synthesis of hardware
and software systems, construction and analysis of real time
systems, software engineering, type and proof theory, logic and
algebra. TACAS is a "community-independent" forum for
discussion between the researchers and developers interested
in tools. In the focus are basic principles and application-
independent features of algorithms and their implementation,
with the aim to increase the reliability, flexibility and efficiency
of current tools by highlighting common problems, heuristics,
data structures, and solutions. In particular, theoretical papers
with a clear link to tool construction and tool descriptions and
applications with conceptual message are encouraged.

As TACAS addresses quite a heterogeneous audience, one of
the major selection criteria for papers and tool demonstrations
is a widely accessible presentation on a conceptual rather than
technical level. This requires authors to think about their
techniques in a wider context, which we believe is the key to a
wider dissemination of more and more professional tools.
Moreover it establishes a significant difference between TACAS
contributions and typical publications in the various specialized
communities, where a large common basis can be assumed.

Regular papers and refereed tool presentations are equally
treated: accepted contributions will receive the same space in
the conference schedule and in the proceedings. In addition,
there will be informal tool demonstrations during the breaks.

The topics of the workshop include: Compositional verification
and construction techniques; Refinement-based methodologies;
Heterogeneous analysis; Theorem-proving and model checking;
Analytical techniques for real-time, hybrid, probabilistic, and
safety-critical systems; Tool environments and tool
architectures; Applications and case studies

Programme Committee: B. Steffen (Germany, chair), E.
Brinksma (Netherlands), R. Cleaveland (USA), F. Giunchiglia
(Italy), S. Graf (France), T. Henzinger (USA), D. Jackson
(USA), K. Jensen (Denmark), K. Larsen (Denmark), T.
Margaria (Germany), J. Palsberg (Denmark), D. Peled (USA),
S. Smolka (USA), F. Vaandrager (Netherlands)

E-mail address: tacas98@fmi.uni-passau.de


For all the above conferences, submitted papers must be
unpublished and not submitted for publication elsewhere. In
particular, simultaneous submission of the same contribution
to multiple ETAPS conferences is forbidden.

The final paper will be no more than 15 pages in the Springer-
Verlag format for Lecture Notes in Computer Science (the
series in which the proceedings will be published); see the back
cover of a recent volume for details. Submissions need not
adhere to that format, but those that are clearly too long may be
rejected immediately. E-mail addresses and fax numbers of the
authors should also be included.

The deadline for submissions is OCTOBER 6, 1997. Authors will
be notified of the decision by December 8. Final versions will be
due before January 12, 1998.




SATELLITE EVENTS

Besides the five main conferences, four satellite events have
been programmed for the 1998 edition of ETAPS. See the ETAPS
web page (http://www.di.fc.ul.pt/~llf/etaps98/) for a more
detailed description and the submission instructions of each
individual event. Prospective authors who have no access to
WWW should use the e-mail address given for each event.


International workshop on Advanced Communication Services
(ACoS)
-------------------------------------------------------------
Communication networks ranging from classical telephony to
intelligent networks and to the internet are going more and
more commercial and conquer unexpected aspects of everyone's
life. Their new, challenging, and extremely broad role as
communication service channels leads to increasingly strong
requirements: users expect greater flexibility, more features
and yet simpler handling of the new media, of course in
combination with extremely high availability, reliability, and
security standards, e.g. for round-the-clock on-line banking.
The rapid evolution of this market requires faster turn-around
times in the definition of value-added services and of their
underlying communication solutions. In particular, recent
research studies and field trials show that  successful uses of
communication products will increasingly depend on their
personalisation capabilities. This workshop aims at bringing
together representatives of the involved parties, spanning
several fields of both industry and academia, in order to address
the ambitious expectations which, we are convinced, are far
beyond the reach of state-of-the-art industrial methods.

Organisers: R. Rueckert (Telemedia/Bertelsmann) and B.
Steffen (Passau)

E-mail address: acos98@fmi.uni-passau.de


Workshop on Visualization Issues for Formal Methods
(VISUAL)
---------------------------------------------------------------
Formal Methods are increasingly needed in industrial practice.
The great challenge for the future is to fully integrate the use of
formal methods into the development process. Development
engineers are unlikely to adopt the mathematical notations
underlying formal methods; accordingly, formal methods must
be presented and encapsulated in an application-oriented
fashion in order to be easily understood and applied by their
users. Visualization and user-friendly interfaces are key issues
for this. This one-day workshop intends to bring together people
from industry and academia to discuss ongoing work in the
field with particular focus on the transfer of research results
into practical solutions. Conversely, needs arising in concrete
application contexts shall be presented to provide feedback to the
research arena. The workshop intends to provide a forum for
critical discussion for people who are interested in the various
technical aspects of formal methods and visualization.

Organisers: T. Margaria (Passau) and J. Posegga (Deutsche
Telekom)

E-mail address: visual98@fmi.uni-passau.de


Workshop on Coalgebraic Methods in Computer Science
---------------------------------------------------
State-based dynamical systems as found throughout computing
science are traditionally described as transition systems or
certain kinds of automata. During the last decade, it has
become increasingly clear that such systems can be captured
uniformly as so-called "coalgebras" (which are the formal dual
of algebras). Coalgebra is beginning to develop into a field of its
own, with its own proof methods (involving bisimulations and
invariants). This workshop will be devoted both to an
introduction to basic coalgebraic notions and techniques, and
also to some recent advances in the theory of coalgebras. We are
looking for participants and contributed talks to this informal
workshop on both the theory and the use of coalgebras in
computer science. Depending on the reactions, the workshop
will consist of one or two days; publication of proceedings of the
workshop will be considered.

Organisers: B. Jacobs (Nijmegen), H. Reichel (Dresden) and J.
Rutten (CWI, Amsterdam)

E-mail address: janr@cwi.nl


Workshop on Algebraic Development Techniques (WADT)
---------------------------------------------------
The algebraic approach to system specification and
development, born as a formal method for abstract data types,
encompasses today the formal design of integrated hardware
and software systems, new specification frameworks and
programming paradigms (such as object oriented, logic and
higher-order functional programming) and a wide range of
application areas (including information systems, concurrent
and distributed systems). This workshop, the 13th in its kind,
will provide an opportunity to meet colleagues, to present recent
and ongoing work and to discuss new ideas and future trends.

Organiser: J. Fiadeiro (Lisbon)

E-mail address: wadt98@di.fc.ul.pt




CALL FOR DEMOS

Demonstrations of tools related to specific topics within the
scope of ETAPS and presenting advances on the state of the art
are invited. Such tool demonstrations should not be confused
with contributions to TACAS, where the emphasis is on
application-independent aspects of tools. Tool demonstrations
will be presented in devoted conference sessions with projection
facilities. Authors of accepted demos will be asked to contribute
a short paper to the proceedings of one of the ETAPS main
conferences.

Submissions should take the form of a description of the tool, of
no more than 4 pages in the Springer-Verlag LNCS format,
which makes clear its relevance to a specified main conference
of ETAPS. At least one screen snapshot should be provided to
allow the selection committee to get some impression of the
quality of the user interface. A specification of the hardware
and software requirements for installing and demonstrating
the tool must be provided. Screen snapshots and the
hardware/software specification are not included in the page
limit unless they constitute part of the description of the tool.

Submissions should be sent, preferably electronically (plain text
or uuencoded gzipped PostScript), to:

       Don Sannella
       ETAPS'98
       Laboratory for Foundations of Computer Science
       University of Edinburgh
       Edinburgh EH9 3JZ
       Scotland
       E-mail: etaps98-demo@dcs.ed.ac.uk

The submission deadline is October 6, 1997.




CALL FOR TUTORIALS

Proposals for half-day or full-day tutorials related to topics
within the scope of ETAPS are also invited. Tutorial proposals
will be evaluated on the basis of their estimated benefit for
prospective participants and on their fit within ETAPS as a
whole.

Submissions should be in the form of a proposal, no longer than
10 pages, for review purposes. It should include a description of
the material that will be covered in the course; a justification of
the relevance of the tutorial for ETAPS; a brief history of the
tutorial, if it has been given previously; duration (half day or
full day) and scope (survey or in-depth) of the course; the key
learning objectives for the participants (what specific
knowledge each participant is expected to obtain); the intended
audience of the tutorial (their specialties and experience level,
plus any prior knowledge they will be assumed to have); the
background of each instructor.

Submissions should be sent, preferably electronically (plain text
or uuencoded gzipped PostScript), to:

       J. Fiadeiro
       Department of Informatics
       Faculty of Sciences
       University of Lisbon
       Campo Grande
       1700 Lisboa
       Portugal
       E-mail: tutorials@di.fc.ul.pt

The submission deadline is October 6, 1997.




THE VENUE

ETAPS'98 will be held in Lisbon, Portugal. The chosen venue is
the Gulbenkian Foundation, situated in the middle of
landscaped gardens, next to a museum with Calouste
Gulbenkian's private art collection, a modern art museum, a
library, a concert hall and galleries with art exhibitions. In
1998, Lisbon will also host the celebrations of the 5th centenary
of Vasco da Gama's arrival in India. A world exhibition
(EXPO'98) will be held on the theme "The oceans: a heritage for
the future". Although the official starting date of the exhibition
is in May, several cultural events have been programmed for
the months before. ETAPS participants can be assured of a busy
scientific and cultural week!




SPONSORSHIP

ETAPS'98 is being sponsored by PORTUGAL TELECOM and
TAP - AIR PORTUGAL.

The support of The University of Lisbon, The European
Association for Programming Languages and Systems and The
European Association for Theoretical Computer Science is also
gratefully acknowledged.

The European Symposium On Programming (ESOP) and the
International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC) are
being organised in cooperation with ACM SIGPLAN.




STEERING COMMITTEE

D. Sannella (Edinburgh, Chairman), J. Fiadeiro (Lisbon,
Organiser of ETAPS'98), A. Arnold (Bordeaux), E. Astesiano
(Genova), E. Brinksma (Enschede), P. Degano (Pisa), H. Ehrig
(Berlin), M-C. Gaudel (Paris), T. Gyimothy (Szeged), C. Hankin
(London), U. Kastens (Paderborn), P. Klint (Amsterdam), K.
Koskimies (Tampere), T. Maibaum (London), H. Riis Nielson
(Aarhus), F. Orejas (Barcelona), B. Steffen (Passau), W.
Thomas (Kiel)

JOSE LUIZ FIADEIRO
Department of Informatics
Faculty of Sciences - University of Lisbon
Campo Grande
1700 Lisboa
PORTUGAL

tel: 351-1-7500123
fax: 351-1-7500084
http://www.di.fc.ul.pt/~llf


