Received: from lugnet.com (lugnet.com [209.68.63.236])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.3/8.9.3/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id WAA15218
	for <handyboard@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 12 Sep 2000 22:22:48 -0400 (EDT)
Received: (from lugnet@localhost) by lugnet.com (8.9.1/8.6.12) id WAA04596; Tue, 12 Sep 2000 22:23:04 -0400 (EDT)
X-Envelope-To: handyboard@media.mit.edu
X-Loop: lugnet.robotics.handyboard@lugnet.com
X-Message-Archive: http://news.lugnet.com/news/display.cgi?lugnet.robotics.handyboard:8060
From: Jerry Normandin <jerrynormandin@ne.mediaone.net>
X-Real-Life-Name: Jerry Normandin
Sender: news-gateway@lugnet.com
Errors-To: news-errors@lugnet.com
To: handyboard@media.mit.edu
Reply-To: Jerry Normandin <jerrynormandin@ne.mediaone.net>
Subject: Rover based on Hanyboard is evolving well!
Posted-Date: Wed, 13 Sep 2000 02:30:42 GMT
Date: Wed, 13 Sep 2000 02:30:42 GMT
Organization: None
Message-Id: <39BEE6D1.32CEF4C2@ne.mediaone.net>
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Mime-Version: 1.0
Precedence: list

Hi,

I managed to build up a pan & tilt platform for my rover out
of Servos, I hot glued them together and built a mount for my ultrasonic

transducer out of perfboard.   Also you need to make a baffle for the
rear of
the transducer or you do get intermittent false reading.
I can plot courses in a small room, if the sonar is out of range I give
it a fudge
factor, that's ok only if your room isn't huge.   If I modify the
counter
and adjust the timer wouldn't I loose resolution?   How much can I get
away with?
I tried type casting the signed int to a long.... uploaded to the
handyboard ok but
didn't fix the problem.  With software we can probably keep track how
many times
the counter rolls over, but that would take up CPU time.   Does anyone
have any ideas?
I'd sure like to see the robot plot more elaborate courses.  Right now I
calculate the furthest
path and take it.  If I detect an obstacle in my path I stop, back up 10
ticks, look to the left, fire
the sonar, look to the right (with servos not steering the robot) fire
the sonar, if left > right go
left , else right.  Simple right now.. but I'd sure like to look at
longer distances.. for now if I am
over 15ft I say that the sonar left ping is 9999 nad the right is 10000,
so I favor the right.
I'd much rather see the full 35ft with sonar. PLEASE Someone, any
ideas?  Did someone
modify the counter to run at half the frequency??? was there terrible
loss of resolution?

If anyone is interested in pictures of the robot let me know.  When the
code is perfected
I'll be building up a slicker looking sensor array housing and the Perf
board will be replaced,
but heck, right now it's light, and it works!  Right now the robot
navagating it's way around the house
drives my dog crazy! When it looked like a rover without the pan and
tilt she didn't pay any
attention, now when I flip the sonar sensor from left to right it drives
the dog nuts!
I thought it was the ultrasonics at first so I just moved the sensor
around... she practically
attacked it.

Also,

I was looking at what I have left for addressing a compass on my HP
expansion
board.  MOSI and MISO are available.  SCK goes to the sonar, If I write
a sonar_disable function, will I be able to use the compass, get a
bearing, then
re-enable the sonar?  I also want to add an SPI based Real Time Clock
and
calendar from Dallas Semiconductor.

Has anyone looked at how much glue logic needs to be added to address
one
more device on the data bus?  I'd like to wire-wrap a Digitalker and get
that
on the rover.

Time to call it a night,   I've got to add some more space to a
filesystem off a logical
volume at 6:30AM... later!

