Received: from 126.com ([221.216.57.169])
	by spam-gw.ccert.edu.cn (MIMEDefang) with ESMTP id j7LJjQvg031777
	for <xiao@ccert.edu.cn>; Wed, 24 Aug 2005 17:26:31 +0800 (CST)
Message-ID: <200508220345.j7LJjQvg031777@spam-gw.ccert.edu.cn>
From: zhu@126.com
Subject: =?gb2312?B?1PXR+bzTyOuw2bfW1q62/ralvLazybmmvuPA1rK/?=
To: xiao@ccert.edu.cn
Content-Type: text/plain;charset="GB2312"
Reply-To: zhu@126.com
Date: Wed, 24 Aug 2005 17:37:01 +0800
X-Priority: 2
X-Mailer: FoxMail 4.0 beta 2 [cn]

加入百分之二俱乐部
Join the 2 percent Club

想要加入百分之二俱乐部是必须具备一些条件的：
Here are the requirements for membership in the 2 Percent Club.Only you will measure your success in meeting them.

1．调整你自己以期能配合他人的思想和特性，观察狗儿 如何快速地调适自己，以配合主人的情绪，并学习它们的自我控制能力。
Adjust yourself to other people's states of mind and peculiarities so that you can get along peacefully with them.Observe a dog,and learn the art of self-control by watch how quickly it adjusts itself to its master's moods.

2．不要计较你和他人间微不足道的一些小事；不要让这 种小事变成争议，大人物从不计较不重要的事情。
Ignore trivial circumstances in your relations with others,do not let them become controversies.Big people kook past small slights.

3．每天应做的第一件事，就是运用建立积极心态的技巧 控制你的思绪，并且整天都要保持积极心态。
Establish control of your mind at the start of each day,using the techniques for building a positive mental attitude.Maintain that attitude throughout the day.

4．学习间接推销自己的方法，要运用说服和楷模的方 法，而不要强迫推销。
Learn the art of selling yourself indirectly,by persuasion and example rather than by the hard sell.

5．以诚挚的笑声纤解愤怒的情绪。
Develop a hearty laugh as a means to release anger.

6．分析你所失败的事例，并找出失败的原因，在不如意 时应寻求等值的正面回报。
Analyze all your setbacks and determine their causes.Discover the seed of equivalent benefit in each circumstance.

7．把注意力放在“办得到”的层面上，除非你真的面临 “办不到”的事实，否则根本别去担心这个问题。“办得到”的 心态，在此之前就已经指引你迈向成功的途径。
Concentrate your mind on the can-do portion of the tasks you face.Don't worry about the cannot-do portion unless and until you meet it face-to-face.By that time the can-do portion will have shown you the way to success.

8．将所有逆境转划顺境，并使它成为一种自动自发的习惯。果真如此，你就会尝到更多成功的果实。
Turn all unpleasant circumstances into opportunities for positive action.Make this an automatic habit,and your success will multiply.

9．记住，人是不可能永远成功的。当你无法完全得到你 想要得到的东西时，应先对自己做更多的了解，以期自己收获 更丰。
Remember that no one can win all of the time,no matter how much he deserves it.When you do not get exactly what you wanted maximize your gain by increasing your understanding of yourself.

10．把生命看成是不断学习的过程，即使是不好的经验 也具有正面的学习意义。
Look on life as a continuing learning process,and even bad experiences will become good ones.

11．记住，你表现出来的思想将会加倍回馈到你的身上， 故必须控制你的思想并确定，你所表现出来的就是你希望从它那里得到回馈的思想。
Remember that every thought you release comes back to you multiplied in its effect.Monitor your thoughts,and make sure you send out only those whose fruits you are willing to receive.

12．要和消极心态断绝来往，这种心态只会侵蚀你的心灵，并且摧毁你所采取的每一步行动。
Avoid associates with negative mental attitudes.Their attitudes will rub off on you and poison every effort you engage in.

13．要了解你个性中的二元性，你具备“充分确信”的积极面，同时具备“完全不相信”的消极面，务必实践第一种个 性，而第二种个性将会自动消减。
Be aware of the dual nature of your personality.You have a side with a great capacity for belief and a negative side with an equal capacity for disbelief.Exercise the first,and the second will wither away.

14．当你因为察觉到自己拥有你在祈祷词中所祈求的东西，而感到充满自信时，就是在认同祈祷为你带来的最大好处，但这种认知的过程，需要最高层次的积极心态。
Recognize that prayer brings the best results when you have sufficient faith to see yourself already in possession of the things you are praying for.This calls for a positive mental attitude of the highest order.

从以上的说明中，你可看出积极心态是多么地强化诸多 和个人成就息息相关的原则。你必须订定明确目标，将信心 运用到这些目标上，并且以积极心态为基础，展现你的个人进 取心。以下二章将告诉你更多维系积极心态的原则。成功是 一种复杂的有机过程，当你能奉行其中的一项原则时，就能继 续奉行其他原则。
You can see how a positive mental attitude relies upon and reinforces so many of the principles crucial to personal achievement. You need a definite major purpose,applied faith in that purpose,and the personal initiative to act in ways that express your PMA.The next two chapters will teach you more principles that both support and sustain your PMA.The cultivation of success is a complex,organic process;whenever you advance in acting on one of its tenets, you advance in others.


更多成功讯息，请登录www.quixtar.bj.cn

