Received: from williams.edu by williams.edu (PMDF V6.2-1x9 #31172)
 id <0IZ001I016IGHG@williams.edu>; Tue, 09 May 2006 10:49:32 -0400 (EDT)
Date: Tue, 09 May 2006 10:49:28 -0400 (EDT)
From: David.F.Fitzgerald@williams.edu
Subject: Caterpillars!
Sender: pmdf@williams.edu
To: williams-personnel@williams.edu, williams-students@williams.edu
Message-id: <0IZ001I036IGHG@williams.edu>
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: TEXT/PLAIN; CHARSET=us-ascii

To the Williams Community,

People have asked about the sudden appearance of, shall we say, rather a few 
caterpillars on campus and in other parts of town and what's being done 
about it.

No, we're not living in a Hitchcock movie. They're called forest tent 
caterpillars, because of the tent-shaped nests they build in trees. They 
were here last year, too, and are capable of eating almost all the leaves on 
a tree.

To prevent this, grounds staff is applying to affected trees a bacterium 
called Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt).

Bt is the only microbial insecticide on the market that is a naturally 
occurring bacterium. It is commonly found in soils throughout the world. Bt 
produces proteins that shut down the caterpillars' digestive systems in a 
couple days. It's considered non-toxic to people and to all non-target 
species. Its use is even recommended for food crops.

The current infestation is significantly worse than in prior years. The 
populations are so high that the caterpillars are moving from tree to tree 
via silken webs, looking for additional food sources and are feeding on 
plant material not normally attacked. For this reason it's very difficult to 
establish a precise spray schedule, so spray sites are determined almost 
daily as the caterpillars arise and new foliage emerges.

We anticipate applying Bt for the next 2-3 weeks during the caterpillars' 
most vulnerable stage. It's impractical to spray every tree on campus so 
we're concentrating on the most significant ones. We're also sensitive to 
people and property and so are making every effort to minimize the impact on 
both. Trees that have been sprayed will be posted for 24 hours with a yellow 
caution sign.

Please call me at x3304 with any questions. Or contact our Service Desk at 
x2486 to notify us of an outbreak in your area of campus.

Meanwhile, we also recommend you keep your car windows closed since some 
people have returned to their cars only to find a large furry wriggling 
surprise.

Eventually they'll turn into moths, which will prove a boon to the local bat 
population. But that's a story for another time.

Regards,
Dave Fitzgerald
Horticulturist and Grounds Supervisor 


