0,1
腺苷酸活化蛋白激酶(AMP-activated protein kinase，AMPK)是细胞的能量代谢调节器，在能量平衡中起关键作用。,AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a regulator for energy metabolism in cells and plays a key role in the energy balance.
此前，我们已经从毕赤酵母表达获得了可溶性重组人干扰素-λ1。,Previously we obtained recombinant soluble human rhIFN-λ1 from Pichia pastoris.
"""以补为喜""的心理需求，""东亚病夫""的社会不安和""强种保国""的观念是人造自来血在近代风靡的社会原因。企业顺应时局变化，在""辛亥革命""后，利用""共和""的必然趋势宣传产品，既迎合了统治阶层的意愿和需要，也顺应了民众的健康需求。","""Artificial plasma"" was fashionable on the market, because the customers joyfully have requirements of nourishing live psychologically, fear being ""sick man of Asia"" and hopefully strengthen the race and country. After the Revolution of 1911, the companies wanted to meet not only the need and requirement of the ruler class, but also of the common people."
每年大约有五十万人被认为患上了多重抗药性结核病。,Approximately half a million people are thought to develop multidrug-resistant tuberculosis annually.
治疗不佳便会导致持续性传播，这可能是当前传染病加剧的原因。,"Poor access to treatment is probably driving the current epidemic, via ongoing transmission."
本文对医学期刊统计报告要求的相关条目进行归纳与实例解读，将帮助研究者了解医学研究的统计报告要求，从而切实提高医学论文的统计报告质量。,"In conclusion, the amplification and explanation of statistical reporting requirements were expected to help investigators understand the requirements for statistical reporting in medical researches, so as to effectively improve the quality of medical articles."
以上结果表明，不同人工锌指蛋白对纤维素酶活性的影响具有多样性。,These results demonstrated that different AZFPs exert diverse regulatory mechanisms on cellulase production in T. reesei.
教育的力也是家力的指耍提升力的方式之一可以先牟t解他人的_始。,Education quality is a key indicator of national competitiveness. One way to improve competitiveness is to begin by understanding the experience of others.
孕妇在孕期的任一阶段均可接种流感疫苗。,Influenza vaccine is also recommended for use in pregnant women during any trimester.
行政院於2017年也提出技教育白皮，中明_指出教育人才必具新思考c`及跨I域整合能力。,"The Executive Yuan's 2017 white paper on vocational education stresses that people in the technical and vocational education fields must adopt innovative thinking, be innovative in practice, and be prepared to engage in interdisciplinary collaboration."
本文从危重烧伤救治、创面修复、电烧伤治疗、皮瓣移植、突发事件患者抢救5个方面重点介绍了笔者科室为烧伤医学所做出的贡献。,"This article mainly introduces the contribution of our department to burn medicine from five aspects as follows: critical burn treatment, wound repair, electric burn treatment, flap transplantation, and emergency rescue."
相信随着理念的深入和技术的进步，智能决策定会成为未来医师实施诊疗的良好助力。,"It is believed that with the deepening of the concept and the advancement of technology, intelligent decision-making will become a good help for doctors in the future."
实时定量PCR 分析结果表明，与对照菌株相比，突变株M1 和M2 中主要纤维素酶基因转录均上调，但不同酶基因在两株菌中有不同的变化特征。,"Furthermore, RT-qPCR analysis showed that the major cellulase genes exhibited significantly increased expression in both mutants, but different patterns were observed in the two mutants."
然而，意是甚N？意是把我平常常做的事眨以不同的方式呈F，它更能c战榆，_不同的思S。,Creativity is the ability to present and/or do something in a unique and unconventional manner that ends up improving or enhancing that activity in some way.
相关性分析显示血浆hs-CRP浓度与抵抗素呈正相关，而与脂联素呈负相关。,The plasma levels of hs-CRP were positively correlated with resistin but negatively with adiponectin.
敏感性分析显示结果稳健。,Sensitivity analysis showed that the results were robust.
结论：TMA 技术具有高灵敏性潜能。,Conclusion: TMA system has the potential of high sensitivity.
