Received: from [18.85.17.114] (mac-404-1.media.mit.edu [18.85.17.114])
	by aleve.media.mit.edu (8.9.1a/8.9.1/+ALEVE) with ESMTP id OAA06440
	for <play99@media.mit.edu>; Tue, 23 Feb 1999 14:02:42 -0500 (EST)
X-Sender: cburgess@ml.media.mit.edu
Message-Id: <v03130317b2f8aace0d26@[18.85.17.114]>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/enriched; charset="us-ascii"
Date: Tue, 23 Feb 1999 14:02:39 -0500
To: play99@media.mit.edu
From: Charlotte Burgess <cburgess@media.mit.edu>
Subject: Charlotte's short list

Charlotte's Top seven so far. 

I think of another one about once a week, so I'll keep adding once I
get the web page up.


My Categories (at least for the toys I'm envisioning) seem to be split
into mostly verbal/communication toys and mostly visual/designerly
toys. A third category that seems reasonable is what I call a "running
around" toy, but is probably a play-acting aid.


The doll with a secret heart: This doll has a secret compartment inside
that glows and is large enough to hold a few small objects (a stone, or
a coin, or an acorn). But this doll can also hold your secrets. When
you whisper your secret to her she not only records it but interprets
it and can share your secrets back with you. As she fills with secret
knowledge and secret things her inside heart glows brighter.


Notes: Beads or pretty plastic shapes-charms and a charm bracelet-that
record voice and text notes to pass between friends. You can pass them
on, add to them in different "voices" or erase them and start from
scratch.


Body print: Digital ink on a huge plastic sheet (a la Twister) that you
paint using your hands, feet, or whole body. You can draw a game on it,
or a story, or load a preprogrammed game (Imagine Twister where the
colors all change mid-way), or a game that someone else made up and
gave to you. Or you can just use it as a "painting" surface. Perhaps it
"paints" in whatever color you put up next to it.


Digital mono-prints: "paint" on a surface with a  stylus or your
fingers. Put a piece of special paper up to the surface, rub it with
your hand, or put a piece of regular paper up to the surface and rub it
with a special tool and you have a print of your "painting."


Bead & Charm designer

A small-scale 3D printer. Design a bead or charm on the "screen" or
other interface, choose colors, surfaces, materials & quantity. Press
the big red button and it makes your beads. Then you choose what you
want to make with them.


Image Jar/Scrapbook: A digital camera (pictures) and a scanner
(textures & close up things) built into or with a wireless link to a
scrapbook in two parts-a printer & a book. You print the images (as
stickers maybe?) and cut them to whatever size/shape you want. Stick
them down, decorate with markers around them, write stuff, whatever!
Lots of different ways to configure this idea.


Secrets to wear: A toy that takes your secret messages and visually
encodes them in colors and patterns on a ribbon or a string bracelet or
a hair decoration. You pass them to a friend and decode them by running
them through a "reader."




