Received: from postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu (postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu [132.236.56.14])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.7-20031020/8.11.7/M-3.22) with ESMTP id k1LGIjt13453
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 21 Feb 2006 11:18:45 -0500 (EST)
Received: from webmail.cornell.edu (hermes21.mail.cornell.edu [132.236.56.20])
	by postoffice10.mail.cornell.edu (8.12.10/8.12.6) with ESMTP id k1LGIiO5000613
	for <egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu>; Tue, 21 Feb 2006 11:18:44 -0500 (EST)
Received: from 132.236.227.119
        by webmail.cornell.edu with HTTP;
        Tue, 21 Feb 2006 11:18:45 -0500 (EST)
Message-ID: <1685.132.236.227.119.1140538725.squirrel@webmail.cornell.edu>
Date: Tue, 21 Feb 2006 11:18:45 -0500 (EST)
Subject: PAPER 8
From: "Nicholas S Gerner" <nsg7@cornell.edu>
To: egs+summary@cs.cornell.edu
User-Agent: SquirrelMail/1.4.5
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Priority: 3 (Normal)
Importance: Normal

"The Sybil Attack" presents four lemmas regarding properties of nodeid
assignment hijacking (called the Sybil attack) in structured p2p overlays.
 The Sybil attack is simply misrepresenting your identity, specifically
one entity might present several overlay identities in order to launch
some sort of attack (a weakness of the overlay systems we've studied so
far).  The four lemmas presented fall into two categories.  The first two
lemmas relate to direct identity verification.  The first states that even
in the presence of distinct identity verification methods (e.g.
computational puzzles), a malicous entity can misrepresent g identities
where g is the lowerbound on the resource disparity in a hetrogenous
network.  The second lemma states that if these verifications aren't done
concurrently for every verified identity, attackers can misrepresent an
unbounded number of identities.  The next two lemmas relate to indirect or
distributed identity verification (where one node depends on some group of
other trusted nodes to verify the identity of a new node).  The first of
these state state that a group of malicious identities (e.g. falsely
verified by exploiting the first two lemmas) can collude to misrepresent
an arbitrarily large number of identities.  The final lemma states that,
again, these verification processes must be done concurrently (in this
case concurrently across the trusted set of identities) or malicious
entities can easily misrepresent an arbitrarily large number of
identities.

"Defending against Eclipse..." presents another type of attack where
malicious nodes "eclipse" a correct node by joining the correct node's
neighbor set.  Here no analytic model is presented, but a possible
solution is proposed where indegree and outdegree bounds are enforced. 
This enforcement is done by anonymous auditing where a node x is verified
by its neighbor's or by nodes in the backpointer set of x (nodes who have
x as a neighbor).  this anonymous auditing technique involves the use of a
set of intermediary nodes used by all auditing nodes to preserve the
aynonymity of the auditors and guarantee that with high probability a
malicious node x is detected.

"Secure Routing..." (in addition to representing Pastry, Tapestry, CAN,
and Chord) presents a scheme for secure routing consisting of three
elements: (1) secure assignment of nodeids (preventing Sybil attacks), (2)
secure routing table maintenance (preventing Eclipse attacks) and (3)
secure message forwarding (guaranteeing that at least one copy of a
message reaches its destination(s)).  These three elements are presented
first as an abstraction, and arguments are made throughout that these
three elements are important for various security properties of p2p
networks.  Implementations for these elements are also presented (along
with so-called rejected approaches).  A presented approach to (1) is to
use centralized certificate authorities to issue a nodeid to ip address
binding to each node as it enters the overlay.  An alternative (rejected
approach) uses distributed assignment where nodes are required to solve
some puzzel to get a nodeid which can be later easily verified by other
nodes ("The Sybil Attack" already pointed out why this does not guarantee
safety from Sybil attacks).  A presented approach to (2) is to augment the
existing routing information with a "constrained" routing table at each
node such that this constrained table (along with a solution for (1)) with
high probability provides successful routing.  Finally, a solution to (3)
is presented with uses (2) along with redundant routing and a "failure
test" to guarantee that messages are delivered.  The standard routing
methods provided by the overlay are used and the failure test is applied. 
If a failure is detected, redundant, diverse routes are used to send
message copies to their destinations.

"The Sybil Attack" presents four simple, analytical results which reveal
an inherrent problem facing p2p systems.  However, no solution is
proposed.  And no mitigating techniques are suggested or analyzed and the
concept of mitigating techniques (to increase the cost of an attack above
the benefit received by the attacker) are dismissed.  This type of
technique may be possible and may be sufficient in many networks.  The
other two papers present solutions and some empirical results, but fail to
build a strong (and simple) analytical framework in which to understand
the problem and reason about solutions.  "Secure Routing..." introduces
many changes to existing systems without analyzing how the properties
provided by the underlying systems are changed (except to note that
performance will degrade, perhaps significantly).  It seems that these
papers strive to guarantee security properties at the significant cost of
performance which the underlying systems sought to provide in the first
place.  A deeper study of existing, real-world systems might reveal the
security requirements of those systems and solutions which meet those
needs, without sacrificing performance requirements might be possible.  In
addition, a better analytical framework to model these systems and the
salient properties might reveal a simpler solution which (while perhaps
not guaranteeing the various properties) provides some probability to
address system needs.

