Received: from bscchina.com ([221.217.185.14])
	by spam-gw.ccert.edu.cn (MIMEDefang) with ESMTP id j84EVILS011071
	for <xing@ccert.edu.cn>; Sun, 4 Sep 2005 21:37:45 +0800 (CST)
Message-ID: <200509042231.j84EVILS011071@spam-gw.ccert.edu.cn>
From: =?GB2312?B?1tDO99bHw8s=?= <long@bscchina.com>
Subject: =?gb2312?B?1tDDwMa9uuK8xrfWv6i/qrei0+vKtcqpuN+8tsXg0bWw4NH7xPqyzrzT?=
To: xing@ccert.edu.cn
Content-Type: text/plain;charset="GB2312"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Reply-To: long@bscchina.com
Date: Sun, 4 Sep 2005 21:45:14 +0800
X-Priority: 3
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express 6.00.2800.1106

 
平衡计分卡理论已经得到绝大多数企业的认同，越来越多的企业更希望导入平衡计分卡体系，使其为自己的企业创造价值。但如何开发高质量、及成功实施平衡计分卡仍是普遍的难题 ，中国平衡计分卡的知名研究与推广机构DD北京中西智盟企业管理顾问有限公司，与美国著名平衡计分卡研究机构"平衡计分卡研究院"联合推出

中美平衡计分卡开发与实施高级培训班 


课程特色：

高度互动：通过经验介绍、案例研讨、操作练习、学员分享，等互动式培训方式，使学员充分参与，"做而学"。
实战经验：授课顾问具有丰富的平衡计分卡实施与培训经验，
可操作性：通过培训，学员不仅可以掌握开发的方法和工具，而且对实施计分卡过程中可能遇到的问题和解决方法和清醒的认识。
国际领先：本课程在美国注册，已在美国、英国、加拿大、等全球十几个国家普及推广。


课程简介：

本课程由美国平衡计分卡研究所开发，采用互动式教学， 包括讲解、教训、应用实例、案例分析、软件演示、绩效计分卡管理工具、顾问经验分享等。
The course is taught in an interactive manner, using lectures, lessons learned, practical examples, case studies and shared participant experiences.

课程目标： 学习如何建立、实施和通过平衡计分卡绩效管理系统实施管理，帮助学员开发和实施平衡计分卡所必需的团队技能和知识。
The goals of the course are to: learn how to build, implement and manage with a balanced scorecard performance management system, and help participants develop necessary critical thinking and team development skills and knowledge to implement a scorecard system in their organizations.

本课程为时三天，第三天将从问题诊断开始，带领学员对围绕如何开发和实施平衡计分卡进行深入仔细的讨论。学员将学会如何使用九步法来开发和实施平衡计分卡。本方法由美国平衡计分卡研究所所长Howard Rohm先生开发，并在美国获奖的。课程基于Kaplan and Norton博士的平衡计分卡基本理念，以及美国、斯堪地纳维雅、加拿大、英国和其他国家开发和实施平衡计分卡的经验。本课程包括一系列绩效管理工具，模板表格等，帮助学员掌握开发平衡计分卡每个步骤。课程还将通过绩效管理软件演示，计算机软件如何帮助企业快速建立平衡计分卡、收集和汇报绩效信息。
This course is taught as a three-day course, the third day being a "working clinic" for more detailed discussions around building and implementing a BSC. Participants will learn how to build a scorecard strategic management system using the award-wining nine-step methodology developed by Howard Rohm, Executive Director of the Balanced Scorecard Institute (USA). The methodology was developed based on the academic writings of Drs. Kaplan and Norton, authors of the original balanced scorecard framework, and other actual scorecard implementations in the U.S., Scandinavia, Canada, the UK, and other countries. Included with the course is a Performance Scorecard Toolkit?, containing templates and worksheets to help users build their scorecard, one step at a time. The toolkit contains worksheets for each step of the methodology.

不论是私营，还是公共机构，你都能学会如何开发和建立平衡计分卡战略管理体系。本课程包括个人化的工作坊，使您能着手为自己的组织开发一个计分卡。
This course shows how to build and implement a balanced scorecard strategic management system for your organization, whether public or private sector. It includes a personalized workshop to allow you to get started in developing the balanced scorecard for your own organization. 
通过培训您将学会：You Will Learn: 
・	平衡计分卡基本理念，及其改善组织绩效的机理
・	Basic concepts of the balanced scorecard and how it can be used to improve organization performance 
・	如何将平衡计分卡应用于不同类型的组织
・	How the balanced scorecard applies to different types of organizations 
・	如何应用我们获奖的九步法开发和实施平衡计分卡
・	How to build and implement a balanced scorecard using our award-winning nine-step methodology 
・	如何开发战略、战略地图、及监控企业战略和流程关键绩效衡量
・	How to develop Strategy ProfilesTM, strategy maps, and key performance measures for monitoring organization strategy and processes 
・	绩效管理软件如何帮助组织将数据转化为绩效信息
・	How software can help manage your organization's data and turn it into performance information 
・	如何为您自己的组织开发平衡计分卡
・	Begin building a balanced scorecard for your organization 
・	平衡计分卡如何促进基于绩效的预算管员工责任
・	How a scorecard system can drive a performance-based budget and employee accountability. 


 

学员为自己的组织建议战略图
Participants develop a strategy map for their own organization.

手把手培训：

通过案例研讨和一系列的小组互动练习，学员将学会将平衡计分卡运用于你的项目/组织之中。本课程包括如下练习：Through case studies and a series of interactive small-group workshops, you will apply the balanced scorecard concepts to your own current project and organization. Exercises performed throughout this course include:
・	私营机构和公共机构案例研讨
・	Case studies of private sector and public sector organizations 
・	运用组织评估建立远景、使命和战略
・	Use an organizational assessment to set vision, mission, and strategy 
・	开发组织的战略主题和评估层面
・	Develop your organization's strategic themes and perspectives 
・	从战略和战略地图生成目标，以及从战略目标生成绩效驱动器
・	Use Strategy ProfilesTM and strategy maps to derive objectives and performance drivers from strategic goals 
・	开发与战略图相关联的绩效衡量
・	Derive performance measures aligned to your strategy map 
・	开发新的战略执行行动
・	Develop new initiatives to execute strategy 
・	建立使命和愿景与绩效的联系
・	Align mission and vision with performance 
・	定义需求，选择适合的软件
・	Define requirements and select appropriate software
・	平衡计分卡的实施、预算和时间表
・	Scorecard deployment, budget and time scheduling


课程好处：

您将理解平衡计分卡的关键理念，以及为什么平衡计分卡被公司和政府部门如此关注。基于哈佛大学的绩效管理理论和我们在国际上实施平衡计分卡的经验，您将学会用系统的九步法来建立和实施平衡计分卡。 每一个步骤，我们都为您配置了相应的开发工具和表格。
You will understand the key concepts of the balanced scorecard, and why it is gaining so much attention in corporate and governmental organizations. You will learn a systematic, nine-step methodology for building and implementing the balanced scorecard, based on the performance management theory developed at Harvard University and our international balanced scorecard consulting experience. You will receive a Performance ToolkitTM with worksheets for each step of the methodology. 
软件是有效实施平衡计分卡的保证。我们将向您展示，软件在帮助您建立平衡计分卡、战略性信息收集和处理方面的作用。您将同时学习平衡计分卡战略管理方面的挑战和陷阱，以及相应的应对手段。
Performance measurement software will be demonstrated to show how you can use software to assist in setting up scorecards, and in collecting and reporting strategic information. You will also learn about some of the challenges and pitfalls of strategic management, and how to deal with them. 

谁应该参加Who Should Attend 

本课程建议公司执行层、经理、规划和分析人员等寻求改善企业绩效的实用方法者。
This course is recommended for executives, managers, planners and analysts who are seeking the best practical ideas in improving organizational performance. 

培训时间：2005年9月28、29、30日

培训费用：人民币11800元/人（包括授课费、教材、午餐等，5人以上或团体报名可享受五折优惠）
                  同时欢迎有意向导入内训的企业，来电来函咨询和洽谈

培训顾问Instructor


Gerald Turner博士是一位专业顾问，是希望通过实施"战略性企业绩效管理" （Strategic Enterprise Performance ManagementSM确  ）实现主营业务转型的组织执行领导团队教练。SEPM是取得预期结果和实现战略的组织变革领导模型。Turner是一位经验丰富的专家，曾任职多种岗位，不仅具有行业知识，而且具有敏锐的流程意识。能够通过有效的战略规划、计划执行和布置、出色运营和绩效管理来实施组织变革。他通过对领导团队的密切合作进行战略开发和实施，实现组织期望的、可持续发展的目标。他同客户一起，使战略目标和组织资源、内部流程相结合，通过技术手段在整个组织内建立一套绩效衡量和管理系统。

他所采用的工具包括平衡计分卡、系统思维法、绩效棱柱、业务整合法、六西格玛、最佳业务模型、康吉、精益生产、全面质量管理、ISO-9001-2002、麦肯 鲍德里奇、最佳业务结构等。他曾担任的职务包括技术总监、TQM总监、首席系统工程师、项目总监、运营副总裁、CEO、COO以及执行管理顾问，责任不断增加。他的国际咨询经验包括：凯捷（Cap Gemini）, 安永（Ernst & Young）和埃森哲 （Accenture）。他最近在从事国内和国际兼并中业务转型和变革进展的研究，包括欧洲、中东、南美、亚洲、环太平洋地区、美国、墨西哥和加拿大。

Turner博士获得电子电气学学士学位、机械工程学学士学位；互联网系统工程硕士和系统管理EMBA，以及营运战略与管理博士学位。现任得克萨斯大学达拉斯学MBA特邀讲师，主讲战略性项目管理。他同时还是认证工程师和认证项目经理。

Gerald Turner is a professional consultant, advisor and coach to executive leadership teams in organizations that want to initiate major business transformation through Strategic Enterprise Performance ManagementSM - the organizational change leadership model for results attainment and strategy realization. He is a seasoned professional who has "been there, done that" and has both the business industry expertise and process acumen to deliver organizational change through effective strategic planning, plan execution and deployment, operational excellence and performance management. He delivers sustainable results by working closely with leadership teams to develop and execute strategies toward realization of the desired future state. He then partners with customers to align strategic objectives with organizational resources, internal processes and enabling technologies to implement an enterprise-wide performance measurement and management system. 
Tools of his trade include Balanced Scorecard, Systems Thinking ApproachSM, Performance Prism, Business Integration Methodology, Six Sigma, Business Excellence Model, Kaizen, Lean Manufacturing, TQM, ISO-9001:2002, Malcolm Baldrige, Business Excellence ArchitectureSM, etc. He has held positions of increasing responsibility including technology director, TQM director, chief systems engineer, program director, VP of operations, CEO, COO and executive management consultant. His experience within global management consulting includes Cap Gemini, Ernst & Young, and Accenture. His most recent engagements have included development of state-of-the-art organizational transformation and change programs for major domestic and international customers in emerging global markets including Europe, Middle East, South America, Asia, Pacific Rim, United States, Mexico and Canada. 
Dr. Turner earned BSEE and BSME degrees, an MSIE in Industrial Systems Engineering, an Executive MBA in Systems Management, and a Ph.D. in Operations Strategy and Management. He is presently a guest lecturer in the MBA program at the University of Texas at Dallas in the area of Strategic Program-Project Management. He is also a Registered Professional Engineer (PE) and Certified Program Manager (CPM).

课程安排：

第一天
DAY ONE
模块一：课程简介
（目标： 平衡计分卡的概念与起源，课程总揽;案例介绍;学员介绍;参考资料讨论 ）

・	课程介绍、对课程的期望、学员
・	Introductions, expectations, and participant knowledge
・	课程目标
・	Workshop objectives
・	平衡计分卡的基本理念和起源
・	Basic Balanced Scorecard concept and origin
・	课程安排、课程流程
・	Agenda, schedule, and workshop logistics
・	团队工作练习描述：任务分派
・	Description of "Teamwork" exercises 
・	课堂举例与案例简介
・	Introduction to the examples, case studies
・	绩效管理软件简介
・	Intro to Performance Management software
・	绩效管理计分卡工具
・	Performance Scorecard Toolkit?
模块二. 平衡计分卡总体框架 Overview of the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) Framework
（目标：理解衡量与战略管理体系的演变；统一常用词的定义；理解为什么要采用平衡计分卡；认识建立平衡计分卡的六个步骤和实施平衡计分卡的三个步骤；能够描述什么是平衡计分卡系统及什么不是平衡计分卡系统；认识可能需要克服的挑战；讨论一个成功的系统的指标；讨论平衡计分卡的项目周期；对比不同机构平衡计分卡的异同；讨论典型的平衡计分卡开发流程
Objectives: Understand the evolution of measurement and strategic management systems; define common terms; Learn the reasons for adopting a balanced scorecard system; identify the six steps needed to build a scorecard system and the three steps needed to implement these systems; describe what a scorecard system is and is not;  identify challenges that need to be overcome; discuss indicators of successful systems; discuss time periods for a scorecard project; contrast the differences and similarities in scorecard systems for different organizations; discuss a typical BSC development cycle.）
 
案例研讨：美国北卡罗莱那州夏洛特市如何实施平衡计分卡
CASE STUDY REVIEW: CITY OF CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA (USA), BALANCED SCORECARD

・	绩效衡量与管理简介
・	Introduction to performance measurement and management
・	平衡计分卡的历史
・	The History of the Balanced Scorecard
・	为什么要用平衡计分卡
・	Reasons for undertaking a Balanced Scorecard journey
・	制订内部及外部沟通计划
・	Developing an internal and external communication plan
・	平衡计分卡与其他绩效管理系统对比
・	Comparisons of BSC and other performance management systems
・	平衡计分卡与其他绩效管理系统相比所具备的优势
・	Advantages of using BSC performance management systems
・	私营机构和公共机构平衡计分卡对比
・	Contrast private sector and public agency use of scorecards
・	平衡计分卡旨在解决的主要问题
・	Key questions the BSC seeks to answer
・	BSC绩效衡量举例
・	Sample BSC performance measures
・	建立平衡计分卡战略性绩效管理体系9步法介绍
・	The BSCI Nine-Step methodology for building and implementing a balanced scorecard strategic management system
・	如何面对平衡计分卡开发与实施过程中的挑战
・	Meeting the challenges of developing and implementing scorecard systems
工作坊：建立平衡计分卡SMS，第一部分
FACILITATED GROUP WORK: BUILDING A BALANCED SCORECARD SMS - PART I
模块三：如何建立平衡计分卡Module III. Building the Balanced Scorecard 
（目标：认识平衡计分卡建立的六个步骤--通过组织评估建愿景、使命和战略，定义战略主题，选择评估层面和目标，开发战略图，定义绩效衡量因素，开发起动计划
Objectives: Identify the six building steps -- Using an organization assessment to set vision, mission and strategy, Defining strategic themes, Choosing perspectives and developing objectives, Developing a Strategic Map, Defining performance measures, Developing Initiatives）
案全研究：建立与实施平衡计分卡战略管理系统（BSCI）
CASE STUDY: BUILDING AND IMPLEMENTING A BALANCED SCORECARD STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (BSCI)

・	如何通过组织评估建愿景、使命和战略
・	Using an organizational assessment to set vision, mission, and strategy
・	开发组织的战略主题、战略和层面
・	Developing your organization's strategic themes, strategies, and perspectives
・	根据战略目标开发短期目标和驱动因素
・	Developing objectives and performance drivers from strategic goals
・	绘制战略地图-开发目标之间的因果关系
・	Strategic mapping - developing cause-effect relationships among objectives
・	选择绩效衡量，目标值和阈值
・	Choosing performance measures, targets, and thresholds
・	开发战略活动计划
・	Developing strategic initiatives

工作坊：建立平衡计分卡SMS-第二部分
FACILITATED GROUP WORK: BUILDING A BALANCED SCORECARD SMS -PART II

第二天
DAY TWO
模块四：如何实施平衡计分卡Module IV. Implementing the Balanced Scorecard
（学习目标：认识和理解三个实施步骤 -绩效信息的计算机化与沟通, 在整个组织内落实计分卡；利用计分卡信息改善绩效
Objectives: Identify and understand the three implementation steps - Computerizing and communicating performance information, Cascading the scorecard throughout the organization, and using scorecard information to improve performance）

案例研讨：建立与实施平衡计分卡战略管理系统 
CASE STUDY: BUILDING AND IMPLEMENTING A BALANCED SCORECARD STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (BSCI)
  
・	平衡计分卡实施问题
・	Implementation issues
・	把整个组织日常工作和战略联系起来
・	Aligning strategy and work throughout the organization
・	收集和确认绩效数据，并使其生效
・	Collecting, verify and validating performance data
・	把数据转化为信息
・	Transforming data into information
・	绩效信息管理软件选择
・	Software options for managing performance information 
・	把计分卡落实到组织的每个角落
・	Cascading the scorecard throughout the organization
・	员工激励，变革管理与企业文化
・	Employee motivation, change management & culture
・	将战略与资源管理决策
・	Linking strategy to resource management decisions
・	建立绩效与奖励系统和奖励的联系
・	Linking performance to incentive systems & rewards
・	计分卡宣传、培训和变革管理
・	Scorecard roll-out, training, and change management
・	利用绩效信息改善组织绩效
・	Using performance information to improve organization performance

辅导练习：FACILITATED GROUP WORK: 如何实施组织的平衡计分卡  IMPLEMENTING YOUR ORGANIZATION'S SCORECARD 

						第三天
DAY THREE 
模块五：我们将走向何方？Module V. Where Do We Go From Here? 
（目标：理解将平衡计分卡与其他绩效管理体系整合过程中所面临的挑战
如何克服这些困难，成功实施平衡计分卡
Objectives: Understand the challenges of integrating balanced scorecard strategic management systems with other enterprise-wide performance management systems; overcoming challenges to implementation）

・	整合平衡计分卡与其他企业系统Integrating the scorecard with other enterprise systems
・	最佳实践：作用因素、时间、方式Best practices - what works, when and how
・	教训：风险识别与控制、组织内部的障碍与挑战Lessons Learned - Identifying and overcoming risks, obstacles and challenges within your organization
模块六：平衡计分卡问题诊断Module VI.  Facilitated Clinic and Workshop 
(目标：帮助各小组应用培训信息，解决疑难问题；根据学员兴趣和关心的问题，展深入讨论
Objectives: Facilitated group sessions to apply workshop training information; problem-solving clinic's; sessions will be developed around delegates' interests)

・	如何建立适合组织自身的平衡计分卡（建立和实施平衡计分卡现场辅导）Building your organization's scorecard (facilitated scorecard building and implementation)
・	实施公司计分卡Implementing the enterprise scorecard
・	开发其他业务或支持单位的平衡计分卡Developing scorecards for other business and support units
・	特别话题Special Topics!

辅导练习FACILITATED GROUP WORK: 如何实施计分卡 IMPLEMENTING YOUR ORGANIZATION'S SCORECARD 

总结及问答： Wrap up session - Questions & Answers

**************************************************************


培训报名表（此表复制有效）

参会人姓名	性别	职务	单位	电话	E-mail	备注
						
						
						
						
银行转账：    开户行：招商银行万寿路支行户  名：北京中西智盟企业管理顾问有限公司账  号：1382126910001付款金额：                            付款日期：    年     月       日付款方式： □转帐         □支票       □邮局汇款        □现金      □其它
请将汇款凭证、培训报名表传真至010-68289665，接到您传真后，我们会及时将培训确认函发送给您，请详细参阅并按照相关内容准时参会。联系人：任先生/谷小姐       联系电话：010-68170514/0520      传真：010-68289665HTTP://www.bscchina.com     E-mail: training@bscchina.com


