Received: from OMAS999.0xqe.com (dsl-200-67-211-211.prod-empresarial.com.mx [200.67.211.211])
	by psy1.psych.arizona.edu (8.8.7/8.8.8) with ESMTP id IAA03315
	for <DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>; Thu, 14 Dec 2000 06:37:08 -0700
From: "Janie" <accuseg46glzo@marvmail.com>
To: <DMDX@psy1.psych.arizona.edu>
Subject: Top-performing stocks recommended by investment experts You can make more money with insider information and stock tips Hottest new offer
Date: Wen, Thu, 14 Dec 2000 01:40:44 +0600
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Microsoft Office Outlook, Build 11.0.5510
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2800.1106
Thread-Index: Ah6hwoFo9nsfQeBBnDSmApZpQnmQjjR5YtUK
Content-Type: text/plain;
        charset="Windows-1251"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Price-sensitive insider information on stocks to boost revenues Financial analysis and stock recommendation on stocks taking off You can make more money with insider information and stock tips 

You may find what you need here: CHINA GOLD CORP
Symbol: CGDC
Current Price: 1.90

You can see China’s developing gold boom is building momentum. Rare opportunity for early investors!

Why consider CHINA GOLD CORP (CGDC)? See nowadays what happened:

• Rising gold prices are further accelerating this gold rush - The price of gold has up 250% over the past five years, and this is still only a quarter of when the price peaked 25 years ago. (Adjusted for inflation.)

• HUGE gold discovery in southwestern China - Resources have already been estimated by analysts at 14 million ounces...and the number keeps climbing.

• China is the world’s last great under-explored land-mass - Locked away in a Marxist time-warp with limited exploration technology, China’s rich virgin gold fields have been overlooked and ignored until recently.

• China is already the world’s 4th largest producer of gold — and will soon be the world’s #1 producer AND #1 consumer. The country is going gold-crazy!

• Foreign gold companies are now welcome - and the laws have been changed to provide full legal protection.
CURRENT NEWS: China Gold Corp. Announces Five for One Forward Stock Split
China Gold Corp. (CGDC - News) is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. The company is pleased to announce today that the board of directors has approved a five-for-one forward stock split. The record date for the forward stock split is to be effective closing Friday, May 12, 2006. Stockholders of the record date will be entitled to four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on that date.


ABOUT THE COMPANY
China Gold Corp. is a Nevada Corporation, engaged in gold and minerals exploration and development of gold and mineral properties in China. China Gold Corp. is dedicated to delivering growth to the shareholder by employing a disciplined business methodology through acquisitions and joint ventures. The Company seeks to acquire properties with the following development criteria: largely unexplored but highly prospective geological regions, ability to generate near-term revenue and cash flow, tremendous geological potential for world-class economic deposits.


Conclusion:
The Example Above Show The Awesome, Earning Potential of Little Known Company That Explode Onto Investor's Radar Screens; Many of You Are Already Familiar with This. Is CGDC Poised and Positioned to Do that For You? Then You May Feel the Time Has Come to Act... And Please Watch this One Trade tomorrow! Go CGDC.
More earning opportunities with expert stock analysis Growth stock picks and stock recommendations Growth stock picks and stock recommendations 









Stock market tendencies and booming predictions Stock analysis tools and tips meant to increase long-term profits 


 No good carpenter does get good wuk bench. Books and friends should be few and good Like flogging a dead horse Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach him to use the Net and he won't bother you for weeks. A Deaf Husband and a Blind Wife are Always a Happy Couple. We all get heavier as we get older because there is a lot more information in our heads  The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese Is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness Necessity is the mother of invention Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger. Live to the point of tears The pot calls the kettle black The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them The Mills of God Grind Slowly, Yet They Grind Exceedingly Small Ignorance is bliss Sometimes the majority only means all the fools are on the same side Danger can never be overcome without taking risks  Great minds think alike, simple minds cant think of anything different Nothing is interesting if you are not interested  Old fish and young flesh feed men best To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings. Seven years nah too much fuh wash speck off ah bird neck. The Family That Prays Together Stays Together All lay loads on a willing horse! A bad penny always turns up. Diamonds cut diamonds Home is where you hang your hat He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword  Half a loaf is better than none. What's good for the goose is good for the gander. Some pork-knockers does only clear track fuh monkey run race. Age is a very high price to pay for maturity 



