Received: from capricorn.ds.csl.cornell.edu (capricorn.csl.cornell.edu [132.236.71.92])
	by sundial.cs.cornell.edu (8.11.3/8.11.3/M-3.7) with ESMTP id fB6IBk612442
	for <egs@cs.cornell.edu>; Thu, 6 Dec 2001 13:11:46 -0500 (EST)
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
Subject: 615 Paper 70
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"
Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2001 13:15:11 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
Message-ID: <97C142C1212ED545B0023A177F5349C40A0A34@capricorn.ds.csl.cornell.edu>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
Thread-Topic: 615 Paper 70
Thread-Index: AcF+gfGy8NK2YS5/Qie3hYaFftZKPw==
From: "Avneesh Bhatnagar" <avneesh@csl.cornell.edu>
To: <egs@CS.Cornell.EDU>
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-MIME-Autoconverted: from quoted-printable to 8bit by sundial.cs.cornell.edu id fB6IBk612442

A scalable content addressable network

This paper presents the design of a scalable indexing mechanism, which
unlike Chord and PAstry, visualizes the routing space as a d dimensional
torus. A hashing mechanism is used here to store a key, value pair where
the key is deterministically mapped onto a point P using the hashing
mechanism. Routing is done by using greedy forwarding; each node has a
set of neighbors whose coordinate spans overlap in d-1 dimensions and
which abut in one dimension. This gives the average path length as
d/4(n^1/d), while the max number of neighbors would be 2d. Each can node
keeps a chunk (zone) of the hashtable containing the key value pairs.

In order to join the CAN network, a node must query an existing CAN
node, which then attempts to find a neighbor node whose hash zone needs
to be split. This is chosen randomly in the simple version of the
algorithm, but can be chosen as a function of how much load a particular
zone has (size). Larger zone would be a good candidate for splitting.
The node then joins the routing mechanism, by informing its new
neighbors of its existence and updating its neighbor state on the basis
of soft state updates. Node departure is followed by a timed TakeOver
message, which a neighbor that detects lack of response from a node,
sends to the failed node's neighbors informing them of a takeover of the
zone.

The authors then discuss and improve the basic algorithm, and also
evaluate the impaacts of the improvements:
a. Multidimensional co-ordinate spaces: Increasing dimensions of CAN
coordinate space yields shorter path lengths.
b. Realities: Each node can maintain multiple coordinate spaces, with
contents of the hash table being replicated at each of these. This
'replication' yields better data availability and lower hop count.
c. Better routing metrics such as measuring the latency between nodes,
to avoid long hops.
d. Having overloaded co-ordinate zones, i.e. instead of one node owning
a zone, multiple nodes do so, and this improves fault tolerance along
with reduced per hop latency/path length.
e. Multiple hash functions: k different hash functions that map a single
key to k different points would also increase availability.
f. Topologically sensitive routing. This feature is well handled in e.g.
Pastry which takes into account leaf sets while routing. Here this would
be a problem, which the authors attempt to solve by setting up
'landmarks' upon which geographically close routing can be leveraged.
g. Caching and replication of commonly used data can alleviate strain on
hot spots.
The authors then evaluate CAN with and without these factors and also
the effect that each of these has on the overall performance. I think
Table 3 on page 169 gives a very good idea of how these changes affect
performance.

I think that this paper was quite well written and brings some important
issues into light. The idea of zones is quite interesting. The only
issue that I can see here is again the inherent assumption that all
nodes are equal in capabilities. Furthermore, there seems to be quite a
lot of state that would have to be transferred periodically if we were
to look at the best case performance as shown on page 168 (30 nodes as
neighbors). Furthermore, it would have been interesting if the authors
had evaluated this with the Pastry and Chord designs to trade off the
zone idea with a simple circular ring.  

