Received: from mtiwmhc25.worldnet.att.net
	by mail.bsos.umd.edu; Sat, 05 Jan 2002 12:12:30 -0500
Received: from notebook ([12.94.3.191]) by mtiwmhc25.worldnet.att.net
          (InterMail vM.4.01.03.27 201-229-121-127-20010626) with SMTP
          id <20020105171228.MGFT15547.mtiwmhc25.worldnet.att.net@notebook>;
          Sat, 5 Jan 2002 17:12:28 +0000
Message-ID: <005701c1960c$1a3d8d60$af045e0c@notebook>
From: "John Pozzi" <JPozzi@worldnet.att.net>
To: <rbrown@socy.umd.edu>
Cc: "[grb]" <grb@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Global Resource Bank
Date: Sat, 5 Jan 2002 12:12:05 -0500
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="Windows-1252"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Priority: 3
X-MSMail-Priority: Normal
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express 6.00.2600.0000
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V6.00.2600.0000

R. Brown
G2002: Globalizations:
Cultural, Economic, Democratic
College Park, MD, USA -- April 11-14, 2002
http://www.bsos.umd.edu/socy/conference/index.html

Dear Mr. Brown,

Thank you for your invitation to present questions, examples and
papers on "how can values be affirmed and democratic actions motivated
in an age of impersonal market forces and radical cultural
relativism?"

Our question is: Can a prosperous global society be achieved by a
direct democratic global institution based on the universal value of
ecosystems?

Our answer is yes and the example is presented in the following paper:

Global Resource Bank

The Global Resource Bank is a direct democratic institution where the
creation of money is subject to the production of ecosystems.

On a planet with prolific ecosystems and high technology there is no
justification for poverty or pollution. They are the price we pay for
private mediums of exchange that mortgage national products. Since
ecosystems produce our capital goods and services, everyone can enjoy
economic security and a natural environment by exchanging their
private central bank notes for publicly owned ecocredit that values
our ecoproducts.

Global Resource Bank Charter

The People of Earth charter the Global Resource Bank to earn economic
security by taking responsibility for Earth's ecosystem.

Articles of Association

The GRB is Earth outside national jurisdiction. Shareholders own one
non-transferable share in the Bank as a birthright.

The shareholders value the Bank's current gross ecoproduct wealth at
6,000 trillion ecocredits. Ecocredits have the buying power of January
1, 2000 Federal Reserve notes.

The Bank's communication account receives 500 trillion ecocredits to
be invested in shareholder communications.

The Bank Capital Exchange account receives 700 trillion ecocredits to
be invested in ecosystems and exchanged for central bank notes issued
prior to July 1, 2003.

Shareholder accounts receive 41 ecocredits per day for 7,317 days.
Shareholders invest 10% of their capital in ecosystems. After one year
of inactivity account balances revert to the GRB reserve.

The Bank receives income from an ecosystem impact charge on
shareholder and commercial accounts. The Bank's income account
exchanges ecocredit with the Bank's reserve to keep the issue of
ecocredit at the chartered amount.

Ninety five percent of the Bank's income is divided equally between
shareholder accounts. The communication account receives 5% to
maintain communications. Shareholders invest 10% of their GRB income
in ecosystems.

 The current GRB equals the shareholder average yearly evaluation of
its gross ecoproduct wealth. Divisions of income are set by the
shareholder average yearly choices.

The majority of registered shareholders choose the Bank's manager. The
manager sets the ecosystem impact charge and is responsible for the
communication and capital exchange accounts.

Amendments to this charter must be approved by a majority of the
shareholders. Guardians have proxy rights.

Prospectus

Ecocredits value our commonwealth of capital goods and services like
energy, water, air, plants, animals, minerals, etc. produced by the
Bank's  ecosystems. e is the ecocredit sign, as in e1,000,000,000,000
equals one trillion ecocredits.

One half of the Bank's current value of e6,000t is issued to the
communication, capital exchange, and during 20 years, to six billion
shareholder accounts. The reserve is for additional shareholders.

The Bank's ecosystem impact charge stops pollution and earns
shareholders a basic income.  To increase ecoproduction shareholders
invest some of their GRB income in ecosystems.

The Bank is currently transferring nonnegotiable ecocredits at
www.grb.net (note: the site will be on line January 8th) You will find
41 ecocredits in your trial account when you register. You can
register any number of accounts at the same address. If you only
register one account, to see how it works, transfer ecocredits to
Frances Fox and she will reciprocate. You can also register your
business, government and non governmental organizations as commercial
accounts.

Questions & Answers

Is the international banking system bankrupt? Yes, however the GRB
will exchange ecocredit for current central bank notes.

 How will people access their GRB accounts? The Bank will buy
shareholders biometrically keyed mobile telecommunicators.

What can I do with nonnegotiable ecocredits? You can use them to test
the Bank's clearinghouse. They cannot be used as hard currency.

What about inflation? To increase the supply of ecocredits per
shareholder would require an amendment to the Bank's charter.

How can shareholders make an accurate evaluation of the Bank's gross
ecoproduct wealth? The Bank will support the creation of information
like that found at   NASA
http://www.nasa.gov/  World Resources Institute,
http://www.wri.org/wri/wr2000/index.html  UN http://www.un.org/ etc.
to help them make accurate evaluations. Moreover, shareholders know if
their environment is getting better or worse.

What if it gets worse? Shareholders can reduce their ecofootprint and
increase  their investment in ecosystems and the Bank can increase the
ecosystem impact charge.

How is the ecosystem impact charge set? The shareholder account charge
is based on the size of the average shareholder's ecofootprint and
commercial account charges are based on the size of their industry's
footprint. The Bank supports the creation of information like that
found at  Globio http://www.grida.no/prog/polar/globio/ Earth Trends
and Best Foot Forward http://earthtrends.wri.org/

Why does the Bank open with 6,000 trillion ecocredits? Six billion
shareholders each need e300,000 in capital to get started (e1,800t),
e500t pays for telecommunications for some years out, about e200t is
exchanged for central bank notes and e500t is invested in  ecosystems.
This comes to e3,000t leaving e3,000t in reserve.

What are investments in ecosystems?  Investments in solar, wind,
hydro, biomass, hydrogen, tidal, wave, geothermal, fuel cell, ion and
muscle energy, the arts, education and health care, eco communities,
design and technology, homesteading, living simply, recycling, natural
farming, gardening and landscaping,  neutralizing nuclear, chemical
and biological wastes, cleaning dumps, restoring paved areas to
nature, converting the world's industrial military complex into an eco
communication, transportation and space exploration complex, etc.

Do ecocredits unite different kinds of communities? The universal
value of ecoproducts unites all communities.

What about government? Ecocommunities govern themselves.  With the
establishment of a democratic global institution that ends poverty and
pollution there is no need for government welfare or defense, however
the Bank invests trillions of ecocredits in national ecosystems via
the UN and recapitalizes national banking systems with ecocredit via
the Bank of International Settlements http://www.bis.org/cbanks.htm

Who's going to work? Whoever wants to.

You are cordially invited to join the GRB  discussion group [grb]. For
more information please go to http://groups.yahoo.com/group/grb/ or
subscribe by sending an email to: grb-subscribe@yahoogroups.com

Initial Capital Distribution & Ecocredit Flow Chart
(see www.grb.net)

Example: If the initial capital distribution of e3,000t is multiplied
by an average account charge of 3.5% per year, the GRB earns e105t.
Five percent (e5.25t) pays for communications, 95% earns each of six
billion shareholders e16,625. Shareholders invest 10% of their GRB
Income (e10t) in ecosystems, directly and through the UN and NGO.
Financial services accounts supply open markets with ecocredit
products such as savings, loans,  stocks, bonds, insurance, etc.

Glossary

International Economics - the social science that deals with the
production, distribution and consumption of national products and the
related problems of finance, taxation, labor,  inflation, deflation,
exchange rates, usury, scarcity, poverty, pollution, war, depression,
inequity, etc.

Central Bank Notes - the acknowledgment of interest-bearing private
credit that mortgages the production, distribution and consumption of
national products

Earth -  the beautiful ecosphere that we live on

Ecology - the branch of biology that deals with the relationship
between life and Earth

Universal Economics -  the natural science that deals with the
production, distribution and recycling of ecoproducts

Money - a medium of exchange that stores shared value

GRB Ecocredit - a publicly owned medium of exchange that stores the
shared value of  Earth's ecoproduct wealth

GRB - Earth outside national jurisdiction, a direct democratic
institution where the creation of money is subject to the production
of ecosystems, a global money utility

Gross GRB Ecoproduct - the total value of the Bank's annual output of
capital goods and services

GRB Shareholders - everyone, owners of Earth outside national
jurisdiction, ecoproduct evaluators, ecosystem investors, free
telecommunicators, GRB directors

Bibliography

Industrial Age

Locke, John: 1690, Essay Concerning Human Understanding - Genuine
knowledge cannot be found in nature.

Smith, Adam: 1776, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth
of Nations - It is not nature but human effort that makes our basic
products.

Marx, Karl: 1894, Capital -  Capitalism will result in the
concentration of wealth in the hands of a few.

Griffin, Edward: The Creature from Jekyll Island - The secret world of
the international banking cartel.

Soros, George: The Crisis of Global Capitalism - We have a global
economy without a global society. The situation is untenable.

Information Age

Einstein, Albert: E = mc squared

Shaw, Arthur & Sposoto, Donald:  Implications of an Alternative World
Exchange System, November 1973, Transactions of the New York Academy
of Sciences. The problems of global poisoning, land destruction,
malnutrition, and war are interrelated consequences of an economic
system that exploits nature and man alike.

Fukuoka, Masanobu: Nature will teach you.
http://www.seedballs.com/2seedpa.html

Smith, J. W.: The World's Wasted Wealth - Honest money can be obtained
by tying money's value to the value of natural resources.  Then one
bank could issue money for the world.

Mundell, Robert: Wall Street Journal - The ultimate development is one
currency managed by a world central bank producing a common asset.

Hock, Dee: Birth of the Chaordic Age - It is a story of a
four-hundred-year-old industrial age rattling in its deathbed and a
new age struggling to be born.

Campbell, Joseph: The Power of Myth - Moyers: So when we say, "Save
the Earth," we're talking about saving ourselves. Campell: Yes.

Ecological Age

Neihardt, John: Black Elk Speaks - It is the story of all life that is
holy and is good to tell,  and of us two-leggeds sharing in it with
the four-leggeds and the wings of the air and all green things; for
these are children of one mother and their father is one Spirit.

Walsch, Neale: Conversations with God - We are all one. There's
enough. There's  nothing to do. - God

Lennon, John: Imagine

UNDP, UNEP, World Bank, World Resource Institute: Economics is based
on the goods and services derived from  ecosystem system capital
http://www.wri.org/wri/wr2000/partner_editorial.html

Annan, Kofi: The environment is everyone's business.
http://www.un.org/News/ossg/sg/index.html

 Political Action

We are lobbing the UN to endorse the Bank. If you would like to help
please send this message to the Permanent Missions
http://www.un.int/missions/e-mail.html

Subject: Global Resource Bank

Dear Ambassador:

Please support the UN endorsement of the Global Resource Bank at
www.grb.net

Sincerely,

Your Name
Shareholder

I'd be pleased to do a grb workshop.

Sincerely,

John Pozzi
jpozzi@worldnet.att.net

