Received: from wayne.cs.clemson.edu by diogenes (SMI-8.6/SMI-SVR4)
	id QAA23274; Wed, 7 Jan 1998 16:47:06 -0500
Received: by wayne.cs.clemson.edu (SMI-8.6/SMI-SVR4)
	id QAA17128; Wed, 7 Jan 1998 16:47:03 -0500
From: mark@cs.clemson.edu (Mark Smotherman)
Message-Id: <199801072147.QAA17128@wayne.cs.clemson.edu>
Subject: "smurf" attack
To: westall@cs.clemson.edu (Mike Westall),
        wayne@cs.clemson.edu (Wayne Madison),
        douglass@cs.clemson.edu (John T. Douglass)
Date: Wed, 7 Jan 1998 16:47:02 -0500 (EST)
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL23]
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mozilla-Status: 0001
Content-Length: 8131


Smurfing Cripples ISPs
by James Glave

Internet service providers and Internet Relay Chat administrators
are grappling with increased incidents of a crippling new "denial
of service" attack that is grinding large ISPs to a halt.

"It's probably the worst attack the Internet has seen to date," said
Sven Nielsen, founder of DALnet, the third largest IRC network in the
world.

The technique, known as smurfing, cannot be stopped with a software
patch, and some network admins charge that the major Internet
backbone providers - the only people who can halt and trace smurfs -
aren't taking the problem seriously enough.

On Monday, the Computer Emergency Response Team issued an advisory on
smurfs, which first surfaced last fall when a program of the same name
that creates them began circulating the Net. This newest denial of
service attack is much more difficult to head off than the "SYN
flood" attacks that made headlines last year. In those incidents, a
server is overwhelmed with half-completed requests for data.

"As compared to a SYN flood, a smurf is devastating," said Nielsen. "A
SYN flood simply turns off one or two services on a host. A smurf
kills an entire ISP for hours, depending on how long the smurf runs."

How it works

A smurf begins when a single malicious user sends a stream of
Internet Control Message Protocol, or ping, packets - used to determine
if a machine is alive - to a target network's central "directed
broadcast" address, which is rarely used, but easily obtained. This
address pings all the machines - often 255 boxes or more - on the
target network.

Each of the hundreds of hosts on that target network will dutifully
respond with a "yes, I'm here" answer packet back to what they
understand to be the ping's origin address. But the cracker has forged
the source address of the originating ping packets.

"The [faked originating address] is the poor hapless victim of the
smurf," explained Nielsen.  Instantly, the target network is
hopelessly clogged, as Nielsen outlined with a typical smurf scenario.

"Assume that someone on a 28.8K modem can safely send out 337
64-byte ping packets ... per second," said Nielsen. "When sent to
a fully loaded broadcast network ...  this becomes 85,261 packets, or
5.45MB of data per second."

"That's easily enough to kill off a T1," said Nielsen. "If the person
originates the smurf from a faster link, and uses multiple relay
networks, they can easily kill off a full 45Mbit [T3]. This is why it's
so incredibly bad."

Further, there is nothing a victim can do to regain connectivity other
than ask upstream network providers, usually national service providers
such as UUNET, Sprint, and MCI, to filter the ICMP packets. But so far,
according to Nielsen's own experiences - and those of others on
ISP mailing lists - "Very few of the backbone providers seem to be
concerned."

Sourcing a smurf

MCI recently incorporated smurf protection features into its free
DoSTracker server protection software. DoSTracker performs some
custom configuration of Cisco routers in real time and helps in
tracking down the genuine source of the malicious packets.

But the DoSTracker software is only useful if one has access to all the
routers between the target network and the smurf. MCI can't use
DoSTracker to trace into competitor Sprint's or UUNET's network because
they don't have access to Sprint or UUNET routers, and attacks can - and
do - bounce between them.

Requesting a filter is often a frustrating process, due to lack of
awareness of the issue and a lack of cooperation between fiercely
competitive national service providers.

"As it stands, it takes anywhere from a few minutes to an hour to get
enough people coordinated so you can actually figure out the source of
these things," said Karl Denninger, president of the Chicago-based ISP
MCSNet and victim of numerous smurfs.

Some administrators charge that Sprint has a flat "no filters"
policy, while others suggested that the company is reluctant to filter
forged ICMP packets because of the drain such a move would place on
their equipment.

"Sprint's backbone filter-policy manager told me that [smurfing] is
not a significant problem, that they do not receive many calls for help
on it, and that their policy is to not place [ICMP packet filters],"
Ken Leland, owner of Monmouth Internet, said in an email.

Sprint could not be reached for comment.

"Meanwhile I have heard from many, many ISPs that it is a problem,
including two local ISP's in my area that have been plagued with it,"
Leyland said.

Smurfs are the most difficult denial of service attack to trace, said
Dale Drew, MCI's senior manager of security engineering.

"When the smurf attacks first started, what the bad guy would do
was find just one innocent third party, send a broadcast ping to him,
and have that innocent third party send all of its packets to the
victim," said Drew.

"What the bad guys are doing now is finding 60 to 70 third parties and
sending packets to those people. So the victim gets hit by 60 times 255
packets of an attack. When the good guy goes in to trace the attack, he
sees 50 to 60 sources of attack," Drew said.

Legitimate network users only hopelessly muddle this tedious
detective work, Drew said.

"During an attack like this, all the people who are trying to use the
service can't access it, so the first thing they do is ping the host
to make sure it is alive. So [investigators] get bad and good
ping packets and it's very hard to tell the difference."

Drew said that MCI prevents broadcast ping packets from coming
through particular components of the company's network.

"That adds a speed bump," Drew said.  "But the attacker can forge packets
going through gateways ... they can come from other sources where we are
unable to filter them."

Competition hampers detection

Various preventative measures can be taken to eliminate smurfs at their
source, but stopping them in action is another matter. Not enough people
are taking precautions, said MCSNet's Denninger. For example, a
single configuration setting will stop Cisco routers from accepting
forged packets, he said.

"The real issue is that we are, as an industry, allowing people to
forge the source addresses of packets that they inject into the
Internet," said Denninger. "If providers would stop that practice,
this problem would go away, because you'd be traceable instantly."

Denninger suggested that such filters should be standard on all
dial-up modem and ISDN ports.

Meanwhile, Nielsen said that the challenges of smurf tracking are as
much political and social as they are technical. Though MCI's Drew
said that his company is dealing with at least three or four smurf
incidents a day, DALnet's Nielsen said he has a hard time getting some
national service providers to grasp the issue.

"Finding people with a clue and the access to track it down on the phone
is somewhat difficult," lamented Nielsen. "The other problem is that
there is very little inter-provider cooperation between the big ISPs.
When we find out that it comes from an MCI router, UUNET isn't going to
call MCI - we have to call MCI. And since we're not an MCI customer, we
have to explain what's going on, and hopefully the person on the phone
doesn't blow us off because they think smurfing has something to do
with a fixation on little blue creatures," he said.

"Then we have to hope that the person with access and ability to
trace the packets doesn't blow us off because we're not an MCI
customer," Nielsen said.

For his part, Denninger has lost enough business due to smurfing that
he would like to see serious legal repercussions for the perpetrators.
The problem is serious enough that the FBI's computer crimes division
is investigating smurfing incidents, he said.

Denninger was quick to blast the national service providers for what
he sees to be their complacency.

"The national providers that refuse to take the appropriate steps to
prevent themselves from being used as a bounce point for this traffic
are contributorally negligent to the problem," he said. "There ought to
be some indictments issued on this."


